One grim winter evening, when it had a kind of unrealness about London, with a fog sleeping restlessly over the city and the lights showing in the blur as if is not London at all but
some strange place on another planet, Moses Aloetta hop on number 46 bus at the corner of Chepstow Road and Westbourne Grove to go to Waterloo to meet a fellar who was coming from Tinidad on the boat-train. When Moses sit down and pay his fare he take out a white handkerchief and blow his nose. The handkerchief turn black and Moses watch it and curse the fog. He wasn't in a good mood and the fog wasn't doing anything to help the situation. He had
was to get up from a nice warm bed and dress and come out in this nasty weather to go and meet. a fellar that he didn't even know. That was the hurtful part of it-is not as if this fellar is
his brother or cousin or even friend; he don't know the man from Adam. But he get a letter from a friend in Trinidad who say that this fellar coming by the ss Hildebrand, and if he could please meet him at the station in London, and help him until he get settled. The fellar name Henry Oliver:, but the friend tell Moses not to worry that he describe Moses to Henry, and all he have to do is to be in the station when the boat-train pull in and this fellar Henry would find him. So for old time sake Moses find himself on the bus going to Waterloo, vex with himself that his heart so soft that he always doing something for somebody and nobody ever doing anything for him. Because It look to Moses that he hardly have time to settle in the old Brit'n before all sorts of fellars start coming straight to his room in the Water when they land up in London from the

West Indies, saying that so and so tell them that Moses is a good fellar to contact, that he would help them get place to stay and work to do. ‘Jesus Christ,' Moses tell Harris, a friend he have, 'I never thing so. I don't know these people at all, yet they coming me as if I is some liaison officer, and I catching my arse as is, how I could help them out?' And this sort of thing was happening at a time when the English people starting to make rah about how too much West Indians
coming. to the country: this was a time, when any corner you turn, is ten to one you bound to bounce up a spade. In fact, the boys all over London, it ain’t have a place where you wouldn’t find them, and big discussion going on in Parliament out the situation, though the old Brit'n too diplomatic to clamp down on the boy's or to do anything drastic like stop them from coming to the Mother Country big headlines in papers every day, and whatever the newspaper and the radio say in this country, that is the people Bible. Like one time when newspapers say that the West Indians think that the streets of London paved with gold a Jamaican fellar went to the income tax office to find out something and first thing the clerk tell him is, 'You people think the streets of London are paved with gold?' Newspaper and radio rule this country. Now the position have Moses uneasy, because to tell truth most of the fellars who coming now are real hustlers, desperate; it not like long time when forty or fifty straggling in, they invading the country by the hundreds. And when them fellars who here a long time see people running from the West Indies, only logic for them to say it would be damn foolishness to go back. So what Moses could do when these fellars land up hopeless on the doorstep with one set of luggage, no place to sleep,
no place to go? One day a set of fellars come. ‘Who tell you my name and address?' Moses ask them.

'Oh, we get it from a fellar name Jackson who was up here last year.' 'Jackson is a bitch,' Moses say, 'he know that I seeing hell myself.' 'We have money,' the fellars say, 'we only want you to help we to get a place to stay and tell we how to get a work.' 'That harder than money,' Moses grunt. 'I don't know why the hell you come to me.' But all the same he went out with them, because he used to remember how desperate he was when he was in London for the first time and didn't know anybody or anything. Moses send the boys to different addresses. 'Too much in the Water now,' he tell them. 'Try down by Clapham. You don't know how to get there? They will tell you in the tube station. Also, three of you could go to King's Cross station and ask for a fellar name Samson who working in the luggage department. He will help you out.' And so like officer Moses scatterin the boys around London for he don't want no concentrated area in the Water--as it is, things bad enough already. And one or two that he take a fancy to, he take them around by houses he know it would be all right to go to, for at this stage Moses know which part they will slam door in your face and which part they will take in spades. And is the same soft heart that have him now on the bus going to Waterloo to meet a foliar name Henry Oliver. He don't know how he always getting in position like this, helping people out. He sigh; the damn bus crawling in the fog, and the evening so melancholy that he wish he was back in bed. When he get to Waterloo he hop off and went in the station, and right away in that big station he had a feeling of homesickness that he never felt in the nine-ten years he in this country. For the old Waterloo is a place of arrival and departure, is a place where you see people crying goodbye and kissing welcome, and he hardly have time to sit down on a bench before this


feeling of nostalgia hit him and he was surprise. It have some fellars who in Brit'n long, and yet they can't get away from the habit of going Waterloo whenever a boat-train coming in with passengers from the West Indies. They like to see the familiar faces, they like to watch their countrymen coming off the train, and sometimes they might spot somebody they know: 'Aye Watson! What the hell you doing in Brit'n boy? Why you didn't write me you was coming?' And they would start big oldtalk with the travellers, finding out what happening in Trinidad, in Grenada, in Barbados, in Jamaica and Antigua, what is the latest calypso number, if anybody dead, and so on, and even asking strangers question they can't answer, like if they know
Tanty Simmons who living Labasse in Port of Spain, or a fellar name Harrison working in the Red House. But Moses, he never in this sort of slackness : the thought never occur to hi m to go to Waterloo just to see who coming up from the West Indies. Still, the station is that sort of place where you have a feeling. It was here that Moses did land when he come to London, and he have no doubt that when the time come, if it ever come, it would be here he would say goodbye
to the big city. Perhaps he was thinking is time to go back to the tropics, that's why he feeling sort of lonely and miserable. Moses was sitting there on a bench, smoking a Woods when
a Jamaican friend name Tolroy come up. ‘The boat-train come yet?' Tolroy ask, though he know it ain’t come yet. ‘No,' Moses say, though he know that Tolroy know. ‘Boy, I expect my mother to come,' Tolroy say, in a nervous way, as if he frighten at the idea. ‘You send for she?' Moses say. 'Yes,' Tolroy say. 'Ah, I wish I was like all you Jamaican,' Moses say, 'All you could live on two-three pound a week, and save up money in a suitcase under the bed, then when you have enough you sending for the family. I can't save a cent out of my pay.'

'What I do is my business,' Tolroy say, taking offence. 'Yes, I ain't say is a bad thing, I try to do the same thing ever since I come to this country. I was Just thinking bout when you yourself did first come, how I help you to get a job in the factory, and how you have so much money save and I ain't have cent. So it go, boy. You still living Harrow Road?' 'Yes. But now the old lady coming I will have to look for a bigger place. You know about any?' 'Not my way. But Big City was telling me yesterday it have a house down by the Grove what have some vacant rooms—why you don't see him and find out?' 'I will see him tomorrow. You have a cigarette?' 'I just smoking the last.' Tolroy sit down on the bench with Moses, and the two of them watching Waterloo station, all the things that happening, all the people that coming and going.
'Where the guitar?' Moses ask. 'I didn't bring it, man,' Tolroy say. When Tolroy did left Jamaica he bring a guitar with him to Brit'n, and he always have this guitar with him, playing it in the road and in the tube, and when he standing up in the queues. 'We better get platform ticket,' Moses say, and they was just in time, for the boat-train pull in and people start to come off
the train. Moses stand up out of the way with his hands in his pocket, not interested in the passengers, only waiting for this fellar Henry to come so he could get back home out of the cold
and the fog. It had a Jamaican fellar who living in Brixton, that come to the station to see what tenants he could pick up for the houses that he have in Brixton. This test when he did first come open up a club, and by and by he save up money and buy a house. The next thing you know, he buy out a whole street of houses in Brixton and let out rooms to the boys, hitting them anything
like three or four guineas for a double. When it come to making

money, it ain't have anything like ‘ease me up' or 'both of we
is countrymen together' in the old London. Sometimes he put
bed and chair in two or three big room and tell the fellars they
could live in there together, bu t each would have to pay a
pound. So you could imagine-five-six fellars in one room and
the test coining money for so. And whenever a boat-train come
in, he hustlin down to Waterloo to pick up them fellars who
new to London and ain't have place to stay, telling them how
Brixton is a nice area, that it have plenty Jamaicans down there
already, and they would feel at home in the district, because the
Mayor on the boys' side and it ain't have plenty prejudice there.
While Moses smiling to see the test hustling tenants, a newspaper
fellar come up to him and say, 'Excuse me sir, have you
just arrived from Jamaica?' And Moses don't know why but he tell the fellar yes.
'Would you like to tell me what conditions there are like?'
The fellar take out notebook and pencil and look at Moses.
Now Moses don't know a damn thing about Ja maica-Moses
come from Trinidad, which is a thousand miles from Jamaica,
but the English people believe th at everybody who come from the
West Indies come from Jamaica.
'The situation is desperate,' Moses say, thinking fast, 'you
know the big hurricane it had two weeks ago?'
'Yes?' the reporter say, for in truth it did have a hurricane in
Jamaica.
'Well I was in that hurricane,' Moses s ay. 'Plenty people get
kill. I was sitting down in my house and suddenly when I look
up I see the sky. What you think happen?'
'What?'
'The hurricane blow the roof off.'
'But tell me, sir, why are so many Jamaicans immigrating• to
England?'
'Ah,' Moses say, 'that is a question to limit, that is what everybody
trying to find out. They can't get work,' Moses say, warming up. ‘And furthermore, let me give you my view of 

the situation in this country. We can't get no place to live, and
we only getting the worse jobs it have-'
But by this time the infant feel that he get catch with Moses,
and he say, 'Thank you,' and hurry off.
Moses was sorry, it was the first time he ever really get a good
chance to say his mind, and he had a lot of things to say. Though
one time they wanted to take out his photo. It happen while he
was working in a railway yard, and all the people in the place
say they go strike unless the boss fire Moses. It was a big ballad
in all the papers, they put it under a big headline, saying how
the colour bar was causing trouble again, and a fellar come
with a camera and wanted to take Moses photo, but Moses say no. A few days after that the boss call Moses and tell him that
he sorry, but as they cutting down the staff and he was new,
he would have to go.
Meanwhile Tolroy gone down by the bottom of the train,
stumbling over suitcase and baggage as he trying to see everybody
what coming off the train at the same tune.
A old woman who look like she would dead any mmute
come out of a carriage, carrying a cardboard box and a paper bag.
When she get out the train she stand up there on the platform as
if she confuse. Then after she a young girl come, carrying a
flour bag filled up with things. Then a young man wearing a
widebrim hat and a jacket falling below the knees. !hen a httle
boy and a little girl, then another old woman, tearing so much
a guard had was to help she get out of the train. 
 'Oh Jesus Christ,' Tolroy say, what is this at all?
'Tolroy,' the first woman say, 'you don't know your own
mother?'
Tolroy hug his mother like a man in a daze, then he say:
'But what Tanty Bessy doing here, ma? and Agnes and Lewis
and the two children?'. 'All of we come, Tolroy,' Ma say. 'This is how it happen:
when you write home to say you getting five pounds a week
Lewis say, "Oh God, I going England tomorrow." Well Agnes


say that she not staying at home alone with the children, so all
of we come.'
'And what about Tanty?'
'Well you know how old your Tanty getting, Tolroy, is a
shame to leave she alone to dead in Kingston with nobody to
look after she.'
'Oh God ma, why you bring all these people with you?'
Tolroy start to shiver with a kind of fright.
'Ah, you see what I tell you?' Tanty say to the mother, 'you
see how ungrateful he is? I would go back to Jamaica right
now,' and she make as if she going back inside the train.
'Tolroy,' Ma say, 'you remember when you was a little boy
how you used to live at Tanty and she used to mind you and
send you to school and give you tea and bake in the evening?
You remember them days? When Tanty give you shoes to wear
and pants to put on your backside? How you expect me to leave
Tanty behind when all the family going England?'
'But ma you don't know what you put yourself in,' Tolroy
start to argue right there on the platform, and people watching
them. A porter pushing a trolley say: 'Come on there out of
the way,' and he nearly bounce up Tanty, who was 'looking
all about in the station with she eyes open wide.
'Look at trouble here!' Tanty say. 'Mister, you best hads
mind what you doing, yes, If you touch me with that thing I call
a policeman for you.'
Tolroy pull all the family out of the way, and they stand up
there arguing, for Tolroy ain't catch himself yet, he can't realize
that all these people on his hands, in London, in the grim
winter, and no place to go to stay.
The reporter fellar see this small crowd and he figure that it
look like a family and he might
􀃞
get a good story from them why
so much Jamaican coming to London so he went up to Tanty
and say: 'Excuse me, lady, I am from the Echo. Is this your
first trip to England?'
'Don't tell that man nothing,' Tolroy growl.
Why you so prejudice?' Tanty say. 'The gentleman ask me
a good question, why I shouldn't answer?' And she turn to the
reporter and say, 'Yes mister, is my first trip.’
'Have you any relatives here? Are you going to live in
London?'.
'Well my nephew Tolroy here in this country a long time,
and so he send for the rest of the family to come and live with
him. Not so Tolroy ?' 
But Tolroy gone to help Lewis and Agnes find their luggage.
'Tolroy is a good boy,' Tanty say, I mind him since he was
small-'
'Yes ' the reporter say, 'but can you tell me why so many
people are leaving Jamaica and coming to England?'
'ls the same thmg I say.' Tanty say excited, 'I tell all of them
who coming, "Why all you leaving the country to go to England;,
Over there it so cold that only white people does live there.
But they say that it have more work in England, and better pay.
And to tell you the truth, when I hear that Tolroy getting five
pound a week, I had to agree.' 
'Tell me madam, what will you do in London?’
'Who me?' Tanty look around as if the reporter talking to
somebody else. 'Why. I come to look after the family. All of
them was coming so I had to come too, to look after them.
Who will cook and wash the clothes and clean the house?'
This time so, Ma pulling Tanty hand to make she stop talking,
but Tanty only shaking off the hand.
'What happening to you?' Tanty tell Ma. 'You can't see this
gentleman from the newspapers come to meet we by the station?
We have to show that we have good manners, you know.'
'May I take your picture?' the reporter ask.
'He want to take photo,' Tanty nudge Ma. 'Where all the
children? Tolroy, Agnes, Lewis,' she calling out as if she
calling out in a backyard in Jamaica, 'all you come and take
photo, children. The mister want a snapshot.',
'One of you alone will be quite sufficient, the reporter say.

'What !' Tanty say, 'you can't take me alone. You have to
take the whole family.' And she went to round up the rest.
Now Tolroy don't want to have no part in this business but
Tanty insisting so much that not so make a bigger scene-people
standing up and watching them-he went and stand by Ma
with a sulky face.
'Wait a minute,' Tanty tell the reporter when he was ready,
and she begin to open up the cardboard box right there on the
platform, and she take out a straw hat with a wide brim and
put it on she head. 'I ready now,' she say, posing with the
family.
'I hope you don’t find our weather too cold for you,' the
reporter say maliciously when he was going.
The next day when the Echo appear it had a picture, and
under the picture write: Now, Jamaican Families Come to
Britain.
While all this confusion happening Moses was killing himself
With laug , but as all the people begin to go away and he can't
see this Heney Oliver-at least nobody ain't broach him-he
was just making up his mind to go home when he spot a test
straggling up from the bottom of the train as if he did fall
asleep and not know the train reach Waterloo.

And in truth is that what happen to Henry, and though he
tell some fellars in the carriage to wake him up when they reach
London, in the hustlement of getting off the train nobody remember
Henry and a guard had was to wake him up.
Moses watch Henry coming up the platform, and he have
a feeling that this couldn't be the fellar that he  ome to meet
for the test have on a old grey tropical suit and a pair of watche
kong and no overcoat or muffler or gloves or anything for the
cold, so Moses sure is some test who living in London a long, 
long time and accustom to the beast winter. Even so, he really had to feel the fellar, for as the even ing advancing it getting colder and colder and Moses stamping he foot as he stand up there. 

The fellar, as soon as he see Moses, walk straight up to him
and say, ‘Ah, I bet you is Moses!'
Moses say, 'Yes.'
'Ah,' Henry say, looking about the desolate station as if he in an exhibition hall on a pleasant summer evening. ‘Frank did say you would come to meet me in Waterloo. My name Henry Oliver.' 
'You not feeling cold, old man?' Moses say, eyeing the specimen 
with amazement for he himself have on long wool underwear and a heavy fireman coat that he pick up in Portobello Road
 'No,' Henry say, looking surprise . 'This is the way the weather
does be in the winter? It not so bad, man. In fact I feeling a little
warm.’
‘Jesus Christ,' Moses say. 'What happen to you, you sick or
some thing?'
'Who me? Sick? Ha-ha, you making joke!’
Moses watch the specimen again suspiciously.
'You must be have on bags of wool under that suit,' he say.
'You can't fool a old test like me.' 
 'What you making so much fuss about’ Henry say, opening 
his shirt to show bare skin underneath. This is a nice climate,
boy. You feeling cold?' 
 'Take it easy,' Moses say, deciding to wait and see how things
would develop with this strange character. 'Get your luggage
and we will go. Tonight you could stay by me, but tomorrow I
might shift from my room and go upstairs, and I will see
if I could fix up with the landlord for you to take my room.
'Whenever you ready,' Henry say.
'Where your luggage?'
'What luggage? I ain't have any. I figure is no sense to load up
myself with a set of things. When I start a work I will buy
some things.'
 Now Moses is a veteran, who living in this country for a long
time, and he meet all sorts of people and do all sorts of things,

but he never thought the day would come when a fellar would land up from the sunny tropics on a powerful winter evening wearing a tropical suit and saying that he ain't have no luggage. 'You mean you come from Trinidad with nothing?' 'Well the old toothbrush always in the pocket,' Henry pat the jacket pocket, 'and I have on a pair of pyjamas. Don't worry, I will get fix up as soon as I start to work.' 'You does smoke?'
'Yes. You have any on you now? I finish my last packet on the train.'
'You mean to say you come off the ship with no cigarettes? You don't know they does allow you to land with two hundred, and that it have fellars who manage to come with five-six hundred?
You don't know how cigarettes expensive like hell in this country? Nobody tell you anything at all about London? Frank ain’t give some tips before you leave Trinidad?’
 'Oh, he tell me a lot of things, but you know how them fellars always like to exaggerate, and I only listen to him halfway.' 'You does drink?'
'Yes.'
'You mean to say you come off the ship with no rum? You don't know they does allow you to land with two bottles, and some of the boys does manage to come ashore with four or five, getting other people who ain't have none to bring it for them? 
You know how much a bottle of rum does cost in London?' 'How much?'
'Thirty seven and six.'
'How much that is in Trinidad money?' 'Only about ten dollars.' Henry whistle phew.
'You bring any money?' Moses went on, for by this time he not even sure it ain't a dream he dreaming and he would wake up in bed and laugh at it. 'I have three pounds,' Henry say defensively. 'But ease me up with the questions old man, I tired after that long journey.'

'Is five pounds you could land with, you know.’
‘Yes, but I get in a wapee game on board with some of the fellars and lose two. Boy, it had a wapee test on board—‘

‘All right, Sir Galahad,’ Moses say. ‘Take it easy. London will do for you before long. Come, we will catch the tube as you ain’t have any luggage.’
Thus it was that Henry Oliver Esquire, alias Sir Galahad, descend on London to swell the population by one, and eight and a half months later it had a Galahad join in Ladbroke Grove and all them English people stopping in the road and admiring the baby curly hair when the mother pushing it in the pram as she go shopping for rations. 

‘The only thing,’ Galahad say when they was in the rube goin to the Water, ‘is that I find when I talk smoke coming out my mouth.’
‘Is so it is in the country,’ Moses say. ‘Sometimes the words freeze and you have to melt it to hear the talk.’
‘That is a old, old one,’ Galahad say. ‘So this is the underground train I hear so much about?’
‘Yes,’ Moses say. Moses make up his mind to treat Galahad in a special way because he behaving as if he think he back home in Port of Spain or something. Still, he had to admit that it look as if Galahad have a lot of guts, the way how he getting on, the way how he land without any luggage, and Moses still amaze how he land without any luggage, and Moses still amaze how he standing the cold without no winter clothes.
Galahad says: ‘I find the train stopping often. Why is that?;
‘Ask London Transport,’ Moses say. 
‘Which part you living?’ Galahad say.
‘In the Water. Bayswater to you until you living in the city for at least two years.’
“why they call it Bayswater? Is a bay? It have water?’
‘Take it easy,’ Moses say. ‘You can’t learn everything the first day you land. And you might notice we don't talk much in the tube because it making too much noise and you have to raise
your voice.'
'How fast-we going?'
'If you must talk tell me about Frank,' Moses say. 'He get
married yet? It had a girl in St James used to write him every
week when he was up here.'
When they get to the Water Galahad want to stand up and
look at everything, though it ain't have anything to look at, but
Moses hurry him home because the fog like it getting thicker
and it making cold too bad.
Sir Galahad look around in Moses room.
'You have a small room, man,' he say.
'You will get a better one for yourself,' Moses say.
'What is that in the corner?'
'A gas fire. I better put it on. You have a shilling change on
you?' Moses have shilling, but he have a feeling that if he don't
tap the Galahad early he would never be able to do it later on.
Galahad hand Moses a shilling and watch him put it in the
slot in the meter and light the gas. First thing Galahad say is: 'You can't put in a piece of lead
shape like a shilling instead? Frank say he used to do that.'
'Take it easy,' Moses say, 'all these questions you asking is
good questions, but you will find out for yourself before long.'
'That small fire does keep the room warm?'
'Yes,' Moses say, 'but if I get the room I expect upstairs you
could stay here and you wouldn't need to put it on, seeing that
winter is like high noon to you.'
Moses heat up a pot of rice and peas and they eat. Moses keeping
quiet because he don't want to crank up the old Galahad
who look as if he like to talk a lot. But when they finish eating
he get in a better mood and he decide to make the position
clear.
'Listen,' he say, 'you can stay here tonight-you will have to
sleep on them two chairs. But tomorrow, if the landlord don't

agree for you to have this room, you will have to find a place. And also you have to look for work. I not saying you is a ants, but it have enough ants already in London. Though the boys does have to get up and hustle a lot, still every man on his own. It ain't have no s- over here like "both of we is Trinidadians and we must help out one another." You going to meet a lot of fellars from home who don't even want to talk to you, because they have matters on the mind. So the sooner you get settled the better for you. London not like Port of Spain. Don’t ask plenty questions,  and you will find out a lot. I  don't usually  talk to fellars like-this, but I take a fancy for you, my blood take you. Tell me, what you used to do before you come?'
'I was working Point-a-Pierre in the oilfields,' Galahad say. 'Where you used to live?'
'Down south, San Fernando, in Mucurapo Street.' 'Eh-heh f You know Mahal?'
Mahal was a mad Indian fellar who used to go around town playing as if he driving car, putting in gear and stepping on the x and making hand signals and blowing horn.
'But how you mean? Everybody know Mahal!'
'He must be catching arse with the new type of gear it have on them cars now! ' Moses laugh.
Galahad laugh. 'He still driving old-model.'
'And how about Palace Theatre? Is still there? Boy, when I was there the film used to burst every minute.'
'Yes man, the Palace still there, but they showing a set of Indian pictures now to make money.'
'I hear they build-over the market, is true?'
And old Moses start to get nostalgic now that he have a friend who just arrive from Trinidad, and the two of them talk a long time, until they feel sleepy.
Glahad put the two chair together and fall asleep right away. Moses watch him, and take a blanket off the bed and throw on him. But Galahad throw it back and ask Moses how he could sleep with blanket when it so hot. 

'I think you best bads see a doctor tomorrow first thing,” Moses say. ‘Something must be wrong with you.’
But Galahad was snoring already. 

The next morning Moses get up about half-past nine andwash face and scrub teeth and comb hair, and Still Galahad was sleeping, with a smile on his face. 

Moses shake him rough. 'Get up man,’ he say. ‘is time to go and look for work. This not a holiday camp.’
Galahad yawn and stretch. 'What you bending down so near the fire for and shivering like that?'
Moses glare. 'All right,' he say, 'don't over-play it, so you don't feel cold, so all right, take it easy.”
'I never thought my first morning in London would be like this,' Galahad say as he comb his hair.
'What you thought? That you would wake up in the Savoy?' It have a kind of fellar who does never like people to think that they unaccustomed to anything, or that they are strangers in a place, or that they don't know where they going. They would never ask you how to get to Linden	Gardens or if number 49 does go down High Street Ken. From the very beginning they out to give you the impression that they hep; that they on the ball, that nobody could tie them up.
Sir Galahad was a fellar like that, and he was trying hard to give Moses the feeling that everything all right, that he could take care of himself, that he don’t want help for anything. So that same morning when they finish eating Moses tell him that he would go with him to help him find work, but Galahad say: ‘Don’t worry man, I will make out for myself.” 
	‘You don’t know this place boy,’ Moses say. ‘Work no so easy to get as you think.’
	‘Don’t worry with the old man,’ Galahad say, ‘he will take care of things.”
‘Well,’ Moses say, ‘I must say you have guts and perhaps you doing the best thing, for you can’t learn no better way than by doing around on your own. I could save you some trouble

by telling you where to go and where not to go, but I won't bother. But take a little advice, old man. Go and see about a work first, because supposing you get one far from the Water, it won't
make no sense to take this room, you will have to try and get one near the work.'
Galahad know that Moses talking good talk, but he don't want
him to feel that he want any help from him. When he was
leaving Trinidad and Frank tell him a friend would meet him
at Waterloo, Galahad say why the hell you bother with that for
But Frank tell him it all well and good to play boldface in a
small place like Trinidad, but when he land in London it would
be different, and he would be sure to need a friend there.
While Galahad sit there not saying anything Moses went on:
'Listen, I know fellars like you, you know. You try to fool
people that you know everything, then when you get lash you
come bawling.'
'All right mister London,' Galahad say, 'you been here for
a long time, what you would advice me as a newcomer to do?'
'I would advice you to hustle a passage back home to Trinidad
today,' Moses say, 'but I know you would never want to do
that. So what I will tell you is this: take it easy. It had a time
was first here, when it only had a few West Indians in
and things used to go good enough. These days, spades all over the place, and every shipload is big news, and the English people don't like the boys coming to England to work
and live.'
'Why is that?' Galahad ask.
'Well, as far as I could figure, they frighten that we get job
in front of them, though that does never happen. The other
thing is that they just don't like black people, and don't ask me
why, because that is a question that bigger brains than mine
trying to find out from way back.'
'Things as bad over here as in America?' Galahad ask.
'That is a point the b oys always debating,' Moses say. 'Some
say yes, and some say no. The thing is, in America they don't

like you, and they tell you so straight, so that you know how you
stand. Over here is the old English diplomacy: "thank you sir,"
and "how do you do " and that sort of thing. In America you
see a sign telling you to keep off, but over here you don't see
any, but when you go in the hotel or the restaurant they will
politely tell you to haul-or else give you the cold treatment.'
'I know fellars like you,' Galahad say in turn. 'You all live
in a place for some time and think you know all about it, and
when any green fellars turn up you try to frighten them. If
things bad like that how come you still holding on in Brit'n?'
'You don't believe, eh?' Moses say. 'Listen, I will give you
the name of a place. It call Ipswich. There it have a restaurant
run by a Pole call the Rendezvous Restaurant. Go tbere and see
if they will serve you. And you know the hurtful part of it? The
Pole who have that restaurant, he ain't have no more right in
this country than we. In fact, we is British subjects and he is
only a foreigner, we have more right than any people from the
damn continent to Jive and work in this country, and enjoy what
this country have, because is we who bleed to make this country
prosperous.'
'Well look,' Galahad say, 'we could stay here talking all day,
but I better go and look for work. Where you have to go to?'
'The employment exchange by Edgware Road. You will have
a lot of company there, you shouldn't feel lonely. What work
you used to do in the oilfields?'
‘Electrician.'
'Well you better tell them that, else they will want to throw
some hard work on you, lift iron and heavy box or something.'
'I did hear some fellars talking on the train when we was
coming from Southampton, about how you could go on the
dole if you ain't working, and how they intend to find out about
it before they start to hustle.' 'It have some fellars like tbat,' Moses say. 'You want to be like
that?'
Sir Galahad hesitate like if he thinking, then he say, 'No. If

I can’t get electrician work I will take something else for the time being,’
‘But you could refuse jobs, you know,’ Moses press the Galahad, wanting to find out what kind of fellar he really is. ‘And all the time the State will go on supporting you. By and by you will learn the ropes and hwo you could coast a long time without work.’

Galahad think about all the things that Moses tell him, then he say, 'Boy, I don't know about you, but I new in this country and I don’t want to start antsing on the State unless I have to. Me, I am a born hustler.’
'I wish it had plenty other fellars like you,' Moses say, 'but a lot of parasites muddy the water for the boys, and these days when one spade do something wrong, they crying down the lot. So don't expect that they will treat you like anybody special­ to them you will be just another one of them black Jamaicans who coming to London thinking that the streets paved with gold.'
'Something else I want to tell you,' Galahad say. 'I know you mean well telling me all these things, but papa, I want to find out for myself. So just tell me how to get to this place and I will go. You not working today?'
'I have a night work.'
'You didn't work last night.'
'I get the night off. But I have to go tonight. Anyway, I not leaving until late this evening, so you will meet me here when you come back. Now, go down the road until you come to Westbourne Grove, and there any bus going up towards Paddington—you better ask somebody—will take you to the school.’
	With that, Moses start shining his shoes, and Sir Galahad went out to try and get a work. 
	Galahad make for the tube station when left Moses, and he stand there on Queensway watching everybody going about their business, and a feeling of loneliness and fright come on him all of a sudden. He forget all the brave words he was

Talking to Moses, and he realise that here he is in London and he ain't have money or work  or place to sleep or any friend or anything, and he standing up here by the tube station watching people, and everybody look so busy he frighten to ask questions from any of them. You think any of them bothering with what going on in his mind? Or in anybody else mind but their own? He see a test come and take a newspaper and put down the money on a box-nobody there to watch the fellar and yet he put the money down. What sort of thing  is that? Galahad wonder, they not afraid somebody thief the money?
He bounce up against a woman coming out the station but she pass him like a full trolley before he could say sorry. Every­ody doing something or going somewhere, is only he who walking stupid.
On top of that, is one of those winter mornings when a kind of fog hovering around. The  sun shining,  but  Galahad  never see the sun look like how it looking now. No heat  from  it,  it  just there in the sky like a force-ripe orange. When he look up, the colour of the sky so desolate it make him more frighten. It
have a kind of melancholy aspect about the morning that making him shiver.  He have  a  feeling  is  about seven  o'clock in the evening: when he look at a clock on top a building he see is only half-past  ten  in  the morning.
By and by he drift down to Whiteleys. Suddenly he stand up and look back. He wonder if he could find his way back  to Moses room! Jesus Christ, suppose he get lost? He ain’t even remember the name of the street where Moses living.  In the panic he start to pat pocket to make sure he have money  on  him, and he begin to search for passport and some other paper§ he had.  A feeling come over him as if he lost everything he have
-clothes, shoes, hat-and he start to touch himself  here  and there  as if he in  a daze.
Suddenly Galahad feel a hand on his shoulder  and though he
want to look and see who it is, is as if the hand paralyse him  and he can't  move.  He just stand up there and he  hear  a voice

say: 'Move  along  now, don't block the pavement.'
When he was able to look Galahad see a policeman near him. Again he panic, though he ain't do anything against the law. Still is so people does feel in Trinidad when police near them, as if, even though they ain't commit a crime, the policeman  would find something wrong that they do and  want  to lock  them  up.
Galahad start to stammer, all the big talk left him now. 'Can I help you to get some place?' the policeman say.
'I looking for the employment exchange,' Galahad say, looking around as if he  expect it  to be near.
'You have to catch a bus  over there,' the policeman say, point­
ing across the road. 'The conductor will tell you where to get off.'
'Thanks,' Galahad say. He went across the road quick  and stand up by Queen's to- catch himself.
'You getting on like a damn fool,' he tell himself. 'What happen to you? All of a sudden like you gone stupid.  Take  it easy,' he say, unconsciously repeating  Moses advice.  'You  new in this place,  it will  take you  some time  to settle  in.'
But the pep talk ain't d? much to help,  and  he  nearly  dead with joy when he look up the road and see Moses  coming.  He start to whistle monkeyeric like how fellars in the West Indies whistle when they see a friend and want to  attract attention. But he didn't have to do that, for  Moses  was  coming  straight  to him.
'Moses,' he  say,  'I too  glad  to see you, boy. If you don't mind I want  you  to  come  with me.'
'I thought so,' Moses say. 'Boy, you lucky  I have soft  heart, else you never see me again as long as you stay in London. You don't know that does happen? Fellars don't see one another for
years here. Anyway, one thing is  you  must  done  with  all  this big  talk.'
'Yes, yes,' Galahad  say,  so relieved to  see  Moses  that  he putting  his  hands  on  his  shoulders  like  they  is  old  pals.
'Come and catch a bus,'  Moses say, and he take Galahad to

the bus queue. When the bus come, Galahad pushing in front of the other people though Moses try to hold him back, and the conductor say, ' ,Ere; you can't break the queue like that, mate.' And Galahad had to stand up and watch all the people who was there before him get on the bus, and a old lady look at him with a loud tone in her eye; and a girl tell a fellar she was with: 'They’ll have to learn to do better, you know.'
'I tell you to take it easy,’ Moses say when they was in the bus, 'you not in Park Street waiting for a trolley.'
'Fares	please.'
'Two fours,' Moses say, and he nudge Galahad. 'Pay.'
Galahad hand the conductor a pound because he not sure how much two fours is.
When the conductor gone  Moses say,  'You could always tell when a test new in London—he always handing the conductor pound note or ten shilling cause he ain't learn yet how to work out  money  in  pounds, shillings  and pence.'
'That was fourpence,' Galahad say to himself. 'That is four pennies, and we pay eight. Eight twos are sixteen.' Aloud to Moses:  'That was sixteen cents.'
'You sharp,' Moses say. 'Keep practicing.’
When they get to the building that mark Ministry of Labour Galahad see it had a lot of notice box with glass window on the walls with all kind of vacancies for instrument repairers and makers and turners and millers,  and operators  of this  and that.
Sign like: Gateway to a  Secure  Future Join  the Post Office as a Postman hit him between the eyes, and a lot of others that en­couraging  you to join  the  army  and the navy and the air force.
'Like plenty job  going,'  he  tell Moses.
'Let we go inside,' Moses say. And when  they  was  inside, with a lot of other tests sitting around, Moses tell Galahad to go to  the  desk  that  mark  Enquiries  and  tell  the  clerk he  want a job. The  clerk take down some particulars and tell Galahad to

beginning and the ending of the L, where some tests sit down waiting like guilty criminals. Over the counter it have numbers on placards 1, 2, 3, 4, and so on. Over the counter it also have a pipe what have the electric wires in it, and the clerks and them have pencil s tie-up on the pipe with long string, dangling down to the counter, for the boys to sign up with. Fellars stand up
in little groups here and there, all of them looking destitute and poor-me-on e. It had a fold ing blind, and two fellars was getting in the folds to keep warm. The floor dirty wit h footprint and cigarette butt. The walls have plenty notice hang up, asking you to join the forces, and telling you what you must do to get pension and insurance and all that kind of thin g. 'You see them papers it have on the counter?' Moses tell Galahad. 'One time in this office they used to have plenty mon;, but one day a Jamaican fellar come in and get ignorant and start to make rab. He tear up all the files and papers they had on the counter, and he make a snatch at one of the clerk behind. He b awling out and cursing and getting on like if he m ad, and police had was to come and take him away. Since that time, the clerks not taking any chances, and the only files they have on the co unter now is those that they using the same time. ' A few fellars call out to Moses, asking him what he doing in the school, if he on the dole but Moses say no, he only showing a new test around. 'Now, on all the records of the boys, you will see mark on the top in red ink. J-A, Col. That m ean you from Jamaica and you black. So that put the clerks in the know right away, you see. Suppose a vacancy come and they want to send a fellar, first they will find out if the firm want coloured fellars before they send you. That save a lot of time and bother, you see. In the beginning it cause a lot of trouble when fellars went saying that they come from the labour office and the people send them away saying it ain 't have no vacancy. They don 't tell you outright that they don't want coloured fellars, they just say sorry the vacancy get filled. But this office here ain't so bad, some

wait that they would call him, and he went and sit down with Moses.
After  a  while they call Galahad	name	and  he  went  into a
small cubicle where a test was sitting at a desk. 'What work can you do?' the clerk ask him. 'Electrician,' Galahad say.
'Electrician,' the clerk  say  to  himself,  and  he  look  through some papers, 'We haven't got anything for you  at the moment.  Will you go to the next building and register and get your in­ surance card, please.'
Moses take  him round the  block to the  next  building. When
they enter a kind of atmosphere hit  Galahad  hard  so that he had to stand  up  against  the  wall  for  a  minute.  It  ain't have  no  place in the world that exactly like a place where  a  lot  of  men  get together to look for work and draw money from the Welfare Stat while they ain't working. Is a kind of place where hate  and  dis­ gust and avarice and malice and sympathy and sorrow and pit all  mix  up.  Is  a  place  where  ever  one  is our  enemy	 and  your friend.  Even when  you  go  to  draw  alitte national assistance it don’t be so bad, because  when  you reach -that  stage  is  because you  touch	bottom. But in	the world today, a job	is all the security  a man have.  A  job  mean  place  to  sleep,  food  to eat, cigarette to smoke.  And  even  though  it  have the Welfare  State in the background, when a  man  out of  work he  like  a  fish  out  of   water gasping for  breath. It have some men, if they lose their job it like the world end, and  when  two-three  weeks  go by and they still ain't  working,  they  get  so  desperate  they  would do anything.
'You  see that fellar there?' Moses nod his head at a old English
fellar roiling a cigarette. 'He is one of the regulars. He does only draw dole. The last time I was here was last year, and he  still  in  the queue.'
Was  a  long  room  that  Galahad  see,  shape  like a L,  and it have a counter going all the way, and on this counter it have files that in  immediate use.  It have some folding chairs at the

with the Worker, and big discussion on politics and thing would
start up. Especially with them who come from British Guiana
and don't want federation in the West Indies, saying that they
belong to the continent of South America and don't want to
belittle themself with the small islands. Meanwhile a African
fellar would be playing the piano-he would give you a classic
by Chopin, then a calypso, then one of them funny African tune.
It had a game them Africans used to play with a calabash shell
and some seeds, and nobody but a African could understand it,
and all the time two-three of them sitting by a table playing this
game. In another room had a pingpong table, and they used
to play knockout, and some sharp games used to play there. In
another room had a billiards table. Them was the old days, long before test like Galahad hit
London. But that don't mean to say it didn't have characters.
There was a fellar name Captain. Captain was Nigerian. His
father send him to London to study law, but Captain went
stupid when he arrive in the big city. He start to spend money
wild on woman and cigarette (he not fussy about drink) and
before long the old man stop sending allowance. Cap had a greenstripe suit and a pair of suede shoes, and he live in them for some years. He used to wash the clothes every
night before he go to sleep, and when he get up press them, so
that though he wearing the same things they always fairly
clean. If he have money, he would get up in the morning. If not,
he would sleep all day, for to get up would mean hustling a
meal. So all day long he stay there in bed, not really sleeping
but closing his er.es in a kind of squint. Come evening, Cap
get up, go in the bathroom and look to see if anybody leave a
end of soap for him to bath with. Come back, press the clothes
and put them on, comb hair, blow the nose in the sink and gargle
loud, watch himself in the mirror, and then come down the
stairs to the dining room, wiping his face with a clean white
handkerchief.
The old Cap have the sort of voice that would melt butter in the winter, and he does speak like a gentleman. So the thing is, after he sponge on all the fellars he know for meals, he used to look around for newcomers, and put on a soft tone and the
hardluck story.
It have some men in this world, they don't do nothing at all, and you feel that they would dead from starvation, but day after day you meeting them and they looking hale, they laughing and they talking as if they have a million dollars, and  in  truth it look  as  if  they would  not  only live longer  than  you  but they would dead happier.
Cap was a man like  that.  Cap had plenty work,  but  he only
stay a few days at any of them. And though he  never  have money in his pocket, yet he would be there, there with the boys, having  a  finger  in  everything.   Cap  only  smoking  Benson and Hedges-if  you  offer  him  a Woods  he would  scorn  you.  If he
manage to hustle a pound, he eating a big meal, belching, buying a pack of  B  and  H,  and he  ready  to face the world.
Come a time when the warden of the hostel tired hearing Cap talk about the allowance that coming and never come, and  tell  him he have to leave. As  luck  would  have it, Cap  was  staying  in the same room with Moses, and he tell Moses not to say any­ thing, but he would go out  during  the day  and  sneak  back  in the  room   to  sleep  in  the night.
One  morning  the  warden  get  suspicious  and  he  begin to
make a rounds looking for Cap, and when he  come to Moses  room the old Cap get so frighten that he start to rattle. He fly out the bed and went down on his knees before Moses, clasping his hands  as if he saying prayers.
'Don't say that I am here,' he beg Moses, 'I would get in trouble.’ And he went and hide in the clothes closet. 
The warden open the door and look around and ask Moses if anybody else in the room, but he say no. 
Captain come out after and start to shake Moses hand and thank him. 
‘You will have to go,’ Moses say. But though he threaten the 

Captain often, Cap still hanging out in Moses room in the hostel.
To make things worse, he start getting up in the night and
saying that he see a white pigeon flying over his bed. 'It ain't have no pigeon in here,' Moses say. But I tell you I saw it' Cap drawing back under the blankets.
'It must be the spirit of my father from Nigeria.' Another night Cap wake Moses up. 'Believe me, I saw angel with a harp playing over your bed,’ he tell Moses.
‘Listen,' Moses say. 'The next time you see that angel playing a
-ing harp over my bed, you don't say or do anything. I like harp music, and he come to inspire me.' One time Cap make a hundred pound. He hear that some
English fellars who want car used to get Africans to buy them,
saying they leaving the country. In that way they get away from
a big set of purchase tax. Then the African would use the car
a bit and sell it to the fellar who finance the venture as secondhand
car. The Cap get in this racket, and make a hundred
pound, but it went through his hands so quick that the morning
he wake up broke he was surprise. Things reach a head at the hostel and he had to pull out.
Cap walk out as if he going for a stroll, with a toothbrush in his
pocket. Brazen as ever, he went to a hotel and put on the soft
tone, explaining he was a student and expected his allowance any
day. Cap face so innocent that the clerk start calling him 'mister'
and hustle to get him a room. No cheap room, one of the best,
and Cap insisting on the ground floor too. One thing with. Cap, he love woman too bad. He is one of them fellars who would do anything to get a woman, and it ain't
have a night that he not coasting down the Bayswater Road, or
drifting round by the Circus. In fact, all the odd money that he
need he get from women that he pick up here and there about
the place. So what he doing is sleep in the day, and go out in
the night to look for cat and sponge a meal whenever he could.
Well of course the hotel people begin to get uneasy when two
weeks go by and Captain allowance ain't come, and they tell 

him he would have to leave. So Cap went out for a walk and didn't come back. In the Water, it hardly have a place where he ain't do the same thing, from boarding house to hotel, from room to room. He had to widen the area after a time. One day you would hear he living Caledonia, another time he move to Clapham Common,	next time yo-u seehim he living Shepherd's
Bush. Week after week, as landlord and landlady catch up with himt the Captain moving, the wandering Nigerian; man of mystery. Nobody could contact Cap, is only by chance you bouncing him up here and there about London.
'Where	you living now Cap?'
A kind	of baby smile,	and 'Victoria.'
'Ah,' Moses tell Galahad when he was giving him ballad about Cap, 'is fellas like that who muddy the water for a lot of us. You see how it is? One worthless fellar go around making bad, and give me the wrong impression for all the  rest'
Cap had an Austrian	girl who was a sharp dresser, all kind of fur coat in the winter, and in the summer some kind of dress that making fellars whistle and	 turn round As long as	Cap had a place to take she, where have a bed to relax, this Austrian was all right And for Cap, he used to take she round	by all the fellats he know when he ain't have no place to stay himself.
This kind of life going on, and the Austrian trying she best
to make Cap look for work.
'Why don't you get a job,' she tell Cap, 'there are many jobs
around, and all your friends are working.'
'Jobs are hard to get,' Cap say cagey, 'it is not as easy as you think.  I have tried  many times.'
On one of those many times, the employment exchange send Cap to a railway to get a storekeeping work for seven pounds. When Cap go, the fellar in charge look at him and say yes, it have a  work,  but is not storekeeping  work, and the pay is six
ten.
'What	kind of	work it	is?' Cap say. At this stage in his
acquaintance	with the boys	he does forget	proper English and
many times you would  mistake  him for  a  West  Indian,  he get
so hep.
The fellar take Cap to the back of the station,  and	behind  there
Real grim. The people who living in London	don't  really  know  how   behind   them   railway station  does be so desolate and discouraing. It like another  world.  All Cap seeing is railway line and big junk of iron  all about the  yard, and  some thick,  heavy cable lying around.  It have some snow on the ground, and the old fog at horn as usual. It look like hell, and Cap back away when he see it.
'They tell me the pay was seven pounds,'  Cap say, backing back.
'They made a mistake,' the fellar  say. 'Do you think you can shift  that  piece of cable?'
'Take it easy,' Cap say.
'Go on, have a try,' the fellar urge.
'Take it easy,' Cap say. 'I will think about it and  let  you know.'
When he meet Moses he tell him how they was threatening him with  this work in the railway.
'Is so it  is,' Moses say  'They  send  you for  a storekeeper  work
and they want to put you in the yard to lift heavy iron. They think that is all we good for, and this time they keeping all the soft  clerical  jobs for  them white fellars.'
Cap  evade  work  so much  that  the Austrian  start to get vex
with him.
'How is it,' she tell Cap, 'that Moses has a job and  manages  on his salary? Why can't you get a job at the factory where he works?'
She n g Cap so much that at  last  Cap  went  to  see  Moses. He come back and tell the girl yes, he get a night-work same as Moses,  and he  would  be starting  right away.
In the night the Austrian come to the tube station with Moses
and the Cap, and she buy a platform ticket and went down the platform with them, and she kiss Cap and wish him luck, and

Cap and Moses get on the train and went.
When the train reach Notting Hill Gate Cap get off and went to hustle woman as usual.
He do that for a week and the Austrian please hat he working so hard.	When	Friday  come she ask Cap how much pay he get.
'This is a place,’ Cap say, 'where they don't pay you the first
week	that	you	work.'
The second week Cap carry on as usual, catching the tube in the Water and	hopping off at the	Gate.
When	the week	over	Cap	tell	the girl	that	he	left	the work
Because it too	hard.
How it	is, that	it have	 women, no matter how bad	a man is, they would still hold on to him and love him? Though the Austrian find out what Cap was doing, she still stay with him. In fact, when things hard she	start	pawning wristwatch,	 ring, coat, shoes and anything to get a penny, and she giving Cap all the money. Cap used to send she round by a fellar name Daniel to borrow, and she would go there	 and cry big water and say how things hard,  and the old Daniel, who can't bear to see a woman cry, would lend she five-six pounds.
When	Daniel	see	she	later	and	ask	for	the	money,	she	say
she give	Cap	to give	him.	When	he	ask Cap,	Cap	say	he give the Austrian to give him.
One	time Cap was	in a		thing with	two woman.	One	was		a German			and		the	other	was		English.		He	borrow	eight	pounds from the frauline,			and as time went by and she can't see him at all,	she		send			the		Chelsea		police	after	him.	Now		Cap		have	a genuine fear of the law-though he	might be the most shiftless and laziest  fellar in London,  one  thing is that he  never in  avn trouble  with  the  law.  So  when  the  Chelsea  police  take  after him he was frighten  like helL
Same time, he was in another thing with the English one. She
spend some timt: in Africa and she know a lot of the boys from there.	When	she	was	in	London	she	had	a	big	work. with	a

respectable firm, and she always traveling light—toothbrush and toothpaste and soap and towel and night things in a small traveling bag, and after work she going round by one of the fellars she know. Well Cap get in with this thing and when the German close in on him, the take a wristwatch off the English girl and pawn it and pay the frauline the eight pounds. 
	One night Cap take the English round by Daniel, and soon after that Daniel was carrying the girl to ballet and theatre and cinema. The English was smart—Cap not taking her anywhere or spending any money, while this Daniel taking	she to
all the latest shows. Teahouse of the August Moon and Sadlers Wells and to restaurants in the Circus and in Soho. So the outcome was that she left Cap and begin to go with Daniel.
One night she tell Daniel how Cap take she wristwatch and didn’t give it back.
'Whatl, Daniel say, feeling like a knight rescuing a damsel in distress, 'we have to do something about that! '
He and the girl went to Earls Court, which part Cap had a room at the time. When Daniel ask the landlady for Cap, she say she don't know where he is, that he went away owing tea pounds ren?
Somewhere in London Cap hear the rumour that Daniel look- ing for him, so he went to Daniel house one night, where he meet the English girl.
'Cap,' Daniel say, 'how you could do a thing like this, man?
You take the girl wristwatch	and pawn it!	You	have to get it back for she	right	away! ,
Cap	see	he	can't get out of	the situation no	how	so he start
to buse the English girl, calling she all kind of whore and	prostitute,	saying how she could go with	Daniel.	And with that he went away not to see Daniel again until the matter was forgotten. One	powerful		winter	Cap	was	shivering		with	cold,	and the sight touch Moses heart.	He	 lend Cap a	camelhair coat.	When spring		come,	Moses	looking	all		about for Cap		to get back the

coat	But he can't	see Cap nowhere. Truth is  it always happen that Cap see	him  first	and	hop	off  the bus or	tube and	run to
hide.	At	last	Moses	run	him	to	earth	in	Marble	Arch	one
evening.
'Aye,		you	bitch,'	Moses	say,	'I	looking	for	you	all	about Where	my	coat?'
'I	ain't have	it,	Moses,'	Cap say	in	the baby	voice.
'You	best		hads get	it	for	me,'	Moses say,	'or I	set the	police after you.	I	ain't	fooling,	man.'
At	mention	of	police	Cap	turn	white,	which	is	a	hell	of	a
thing to	see.	And	the	next	day	he	pass	round	by	Moses house
and	drop	the	coat
And	yet	when	things
real	desperate	with	Cap	is	Moses	self
who	helping	him	out.	The	Austrian	used	to	complain	to	him about Cap.	'All day he is sleeping, sleeping, I do not know what
to do.'
Moses
say :	'Listen,	I telling	you,	that man	no  good for you, fellar	who	won't  do no  work,	he	would	sleep
he is a	worthless
with	you	and • then
look	for	somebody	else	to	sleep	with	two
minutes	after,	why	you	don't	leave	him?'
The Austrian ups and went back and tell Captain all what Moses say,  and he  and  Cap  had a big quarrel about it.
But still Moses have compassion on him. Round about that time the Captain trousers start to give way under the stress and strain of the seasons, and it was Moses who give  him  a  old  pair of pants. Moses  couldn't  help:  everytime  he  going  out with the Cap, Cap walking a little bit in  front  and  asking  him: 'See if my backside is showing, boy, this pair of trousers wearing
thin.'	And	he	look	and	see	that	Cap	really	in	a	bad	way,	and
the soft	heart	was	touched	once	more.
So Cap	get a	pair	of	cordurovs,	and him	a	black	blazer	jacket.
the	Austrian	girl	give him a black blazer jacket. 
One night something happen with Cap and Moses nearly go mad laughing when he find out afterwards, because at the time he didn't  know  nothing.  He  and  Cap  uses to coast Bayswater

Road,  from  the  Arch  to  the  Gate,  nearly every  night.  Well it had one woman u d to be hu tling there, dress up nice, wearing fur coat, and every time when the boys pass he saying 'Bon soir,' in a boars voice, and the boys answering politely 'Bon sou' and walking on. But on this particular night things was scarce on the patrol and the old Cap thirst bad, so Moses tell him why he don't broach this big woman who always telling them 'Bon soir.'
Cap broach and he take the woman down by Gloucester Road and he was so hurry he couldn't wait but had was to begin as soon as she turn off the lights in the room.
Couple nights after they was talking to some women near a pub, when one of them turn to Captain and say: 'It was you who slept with that man the other night!'
And when the mark burst, Moses get to understand that this
'Bon soir' woman was really a test	who used to dress up like woman and patrol	the	area.
Moses start one set of laughing, and the old Cap laugh too. He tell Moses he didn't know anything until he begin, when he find the going difficult and realise that something wrong.
Since that time all the boys greeting Captain: 'Bon soir.'
Who can tell what was the vap that hit Cap and make him get married? A man like he, who ain't have nothing, no clothes, no work, no house to live in, no place to go? Yet is so things does happen in life. You work things out in your own mind to a  kind  of  pattern,  in  a  sort  of  sequence,  and  one  day  hm! something happen to throw everything out of gear, what you expect to happen never happen, what _you don't expect to hap.pen always happen, and you have to start thinking all over
again.
Cap was a fellar like that-a fellar that you never know what he will be doing, which part he will be, what he will say. If you hear that Cap is Prime Minister of England, don't be surprised If you hear that Cap kill four-five people in the Circus, don't be

surprised.  If you hear that Cap join a order• of the monks and go to Tibet to meditate,  be unconcerned.
Cap had a friend in Brighton who had a garage business, who was friending with a French  girl.  The French girl went back to France and tell she sister how things rosy in Britain, and the sister come, and Cap get in with she. This number was a sharp thing and Cap like it more than the regular Austrian. He tell Frenchy how the garage  business  not  doing  so  well-this.  time so he give her the impression that he have part ownership in his
•friend business-and that he  would be leaving it and taking up a post  with  the Nigerian  Government.  He tell  the• girl is. a better job, and she believe every word he say, partly  because his  face so innocent, and partly because she can't understand English so well.
So thinking they would soon be off to  Nigeria, the girl  decide  to marry Cap. She went to a vicar and  give three weeks notice, and when the time come Cap  went, wearing  the corduroy trousers  and  the  black blazer jacket and the  suede shoes, which
was still  carrying  him around.  Them suede shoes,  the makers
would pay Cap a lot of money if they could get him to advertise how long they  last him.
Without a cent in the world, no prospects, nothing  at  all Cap went to say 'I do.' When the vicar say they have to have a witness Cap run out on the road• and was lucky to see a African fellar passing. He explain the position and the fellar  say  all  right, but after the ceremony, when the vicar tell the fellar that he have to  sign a book,  the  test shake  his  head.
'I not signing anything,' he say. 'I come to witness, and I wit­ ness. But I not signing anything.'
All  the  vicar  explain to the  test  that it was necessary for the
witness to sign the registry,  the  fellar  decide that he not putting his  name  to any  paper,  and  he  went away.
Good	thing,	the  vicar  wife  was  in, and she said she  would
witness. Cap, not having any address at the time, give Frenchy Daniel

address and left the girl, saying he have some business to attend to.
That evening when Daniel come  home from work the land lord meet him by the door and say: 'Your wife has come.’
'My wife ?' Daniel say, standing up stupid.
'Yes. She is waiting for you in your room.'
Wh n Dani 1 h ar that he fly up the steps to see who it was.  He see Frenchy sitting  there  with all  her  luggage,  waiting on th Captain. She manage to explain to Daniel what she was doing there, and now Daniel in a quandary. He don't know which part to find the Captain. At last he had to leave the girl and go to look, and he decide to try a all night cafe in the Gate where Cap does always hang out, coasting lime over a cuppa or a cup of coffee; sitting there eyeing every woman, trying to make contact.
As  luck would have  it he  spot the  old Cap  having a cuppa, sitting down on a stool like if he have _all the tjme in the world and not  a worry on his  mind.
'Cap,' Daniel say, 'what the hell is this? Your wife home by me, man, with all she luggage.'
'Good lord,' Cap murmur, sipping tea and wiping his face with the clean white  handkerchief.  'Good lord.'
'Don't just sit there an? say good lord, man. Do something.' 'Look, Daniel, this is the  way it is.’ And Cap say how he have no place to take the wife.
'But Christ man why you get married if you have no place  to 'live?'
'Good	lord,' Cap murmur.
Now Cap gambling on Daniel thirst, so when they go back to the room Cap encouraging conversation and getting Frenchy to talk familiar with Daniel, and sure enough the old Daniel had the kettle on to make a cup of tea.
So the night wearing on, and Cap ain't making no move to
move; he only sitting down there wondering how to get out of the mooch he find himself in. As for Frenchy, she  puzzle that Cap only sitting there and wouldn’t get up. 

Cap put on the soft tone and ask Daniel to lend him eight pounds.
'Eight pounds I' Daniel say. 'What you think, money growing
'I will give it back to you tomorrow,' Cap say, making the sign of the cross with his forefingers and kissing it, as he see the West Indian boys do.
Daniel hesitate a little, but he want to impress the French girl. Now he is a fellar that does take them woman to Covent Garden and Festival Hall, and them girl does have big times in them places, for all they accustom to is a pint of mild, the old fish aud chips, and the one and six local. Many times Daniel go round by Moses saying how he take so and so to see ballet, and Moses tell him that them girls won't appreciate those things.
'I want  them to feel good that we coloured fellars could take them to these places,' Daniel say, 'and we could appreciate even if they can't.'
'You spending your money bad,' Moses say. 'Them girls ain't worth it.'
But Daniel does feel good• when he do things like that, it give him a big kick to know that one of	the boys could take white girls to the places to listen to classics and see artistic ballet. 'You don't treat your women right,' he tell Moses, 'as long as you could get them in the yard you satisfy. You don't spend no money on them.'
'Why I must spend my money on them frowsy women?' Moses say.
So with Frenchy sitting there and Cap giving the impression that anytime Daniel want a little thing with she it would be all right—he  fork over the money.
Upon that Cap went out and hail a taxi and take the girl away to a seven-guinea room in a  hotel. And so Cap start the married life. He had to shift out of the hotel when the week was up, but the French girl was getting

money from France every week, and they live  on  that  for  a long time. Every time she ask him when they going to Nigeria, Cap say he waiting on some papers  from  the  Nigerian  Embassy.
Meanwhile the Austrian  hear  that  Cap have  another  girl, but she didn't know it was so serious. When she find out she went by Moses to moan, but he tell she to go to hell, because he did warn her about Cap.
Cap carrying on the same sort of life  like  when  he was single. He there with the French girl in the night,  and when she fall asleep he putting on clothes and going out to hustle just as he used to do before he get married. It don't make no difference to him at all. Eventually Frenchy had to get a work in a store, and nothing please him better. He sleeping all day while she out working, and going out in the night He make she  buy  a radiogram and he get some of the latest bop records to keep him company, and now and again he having a  little  party  in  the room.
He had a way, every time Moses have a girl visitor, he drop­ ping  in  and won't leave at all,  sitting  down  there  on  the bed as if he waiting for Moses to give him a share. This thing happen often that Moses get damn vex.
One evening when a  girl  was there the  bell  ring  and  Moses
went and open the door.  From  the  moment  he  see  Cap  he  start to get  on ignorant.
'Get out, get to hell out, man!' he say, and he  push  Cap  in  the  road and shut the door.
Still, the Captain living. Day after day you will see him, doing nothing, having nothing, owing everybody, and yet he there  with this innocent face, living on and on, smoking Benson and Hedges when things good, doing without a smoke when things
bad. Who in this world think that work  necessary? Who  say that a man must have two pairs of shoes or two trousers or two jackets? Cap with woman left and right-he have a way, he does pick up something and take it home and when he finish and she

ask for money, throw she out on the streets.  He have a way, he would	broach any girl who he see going around with one of the boys. Yet day after day Cap still alive, defying all logic and reason and convention, living without working, smoking the best cigarettes, never without women. Sometimes	you does have	to start thinking all over again when you feel you have things down the right way.

During them first days at the hostel, Moses really meet some characters. It had another fellar name Bartholomew. Bart was the sort of fellar who have a pound, and come downstairs for-a meal, and he see a friend who broken, and the friend beg him for a meal, and Bart do without eating himself so he wouldn't have to change the pound and ease up the friend. He used to tell the boys about a fellar who was a good friend
To him, who would do anything for him, and he would do anything for the fellar. One evening the  friend come when Bart was out  and  ask  Moses  to  lend  him  fve  shillings,  saying that Bart would fix up when he come. Because Bart talk so much about the friendship Moses didn't hesitate. When Bart come back, Moses ask him for the five shillings.
'Oh God man, you mean to say you give the man	five
'How you mean?' Moses say, 'ain't	he is your good friend?'
‘Yes, but five shillings is five shillings. Why you lend the man the money? That is five shillings, boy,	five shillings!’
Moses never get the five shillings from Bart.
Bart have light skin.	That is to say, he neither here nor there, though he more here than there. When he first hit Brit’n, like a lot of other brown-skin fellars who frighten for the last, he go around telling everybody that he is a Latin-American, that he come from South America. Bart had ambition that always 

too big for him. He always talking about this party and that meeting  that  he  attend  in  the  West  End  or  in  Park  Lane.  He had some contacts, and  he  really  used  to  go  to  some  places, but all  he  could  talk  about  when  he come back  was  the  amount of sandwich he  eat,  and  how  he  drink  whisky  like  water.  Once he tell the boys he  on a big  project, and he used to stay  upstairs  in his room all the time,  only  coming  down  for  meals  and rushing back. He do that for a week and  then  stop,  and nobody ever  hear  anything  more  about  the project.
It have to be made clear to Bart, from the time he  see you,  that  you  don•t  want  to  borrow money from	him. That is his big worry. When he see you right away he would  start  to  get  on cagey, on the lookout, but as soon as it clear that you don't want anything from him the old Bart  open up like  a  water  tap and start to tell you all what happening in  town. He always saying he ain't have no money, afraid that somebody might want to  borrow.
'You is a damn fool,' Moses tell him. 'If you have two hundred pounds in the bank, that is yours old man, yours, and nobody could  make  you  lend  ?em. That is  your  money,  and  if  you _ don't  want   to  lend,  who   could  make you?'
'Man Moses I really telling you, I haven't any.'
About	a week	 after he would come  and	say	quietly, as if nothing happen: 'Boy, I  send two hundred  pound to Trinidad yesterday.'
'I thought you  say  you ain't have  no money,’Moses say. And  Bart  laugh  kiff-kiff,  as if  the whole  thing is  a joke.
Only fellar who  ever tap Bart was Cap, and that  happen  in  the very early days. Cap broach Bart and ask him to lend two and six.
'Eh?'	Bart  say,  playing  as if he	can't hear, and putting his hand  on  his  ear  and  cocking  it  up
'I asked you to lend me two and six,' Cap say. (Cap would try  to borrow from Mr Macmillan if he get the  chance.)




'Well anyway is none of my business. Tanty, make some tea for me, I want to go out.'
'Why you don't stay home and sleep, you work all night.' 'I have to go out. Make  haste.'
'You talking about warning  Lewis, but let me warn you, I
know where you going. You think I don't know you have a white girl. You better watch• out and don't get in no trouble. I mind you from a little boy.'
'All right Tanty.  But make the tea quick.'
'White girls,' Tanty grumble as she put the kettle on the fireplace fire, 'is that what sweeten up so many of you to come to London. Your own kind of girls not good enough now, is only white girls. I see Agnes bring a nice girl friend from Jamaica
to see us, but you didn't even blink on she. White girls! Go on!
They will catch up with you in this country!'
Thee place where Tolroy and the family living was off the Harrow Road, and the people in that area call the Working Class. Wherever in London that it have Working Class, there ou will find a lot of spades. This is the real world, where men know what it is to hustle a pound to pay the rent when Friday come. The houses around here old and grey and weatherbeaten, the walls cracking like the last days of Pompeii, it ain't have no hot water, and in the whole street that Tolroy and them living in, none of the houses have bath. You had was to buy one of them big galvanise basin and boil the water and full it up, or else go to the public bath. Some of the houses still had gas light, which is to tell you how old they was. All the houses in a row in the street, on both sides, they build like one long house with walls separating them in parts, so your house jam-up between two neighbours:   is  so  most of the houses is in London. The street does be always dirty except if rain fall. Sometimes a truck does come with a kind of revolving broom and some pipes letting out water, and the driver drive near the pavement, and water come  out  the  pipes  and  the  broom  revolve, .and  so  they sweep the road. It always have little children playing in the


road, because they ain't have no other place to play.	 They do draw hopscotch blocks on the pavement, and	 other things, and some of the	walls of the buildings have signs painted like vote 
Labour	and Down With the Tories. The bottom of the street, it had	a sweet shop, a bakery, a grocery, a butcher and	 a fish and chips.  The top of the street, where it joins the Harrow Road, 
It had all kind	of thing-shop,	store, butcher,	greengrocer,  trolley and bus stop. Up here on a Saturday plenty vendors used  to be selling provisions near the pavements. It had a truck used to come one time with flowers to sell, and the	fellars used to sellcheap, and the poor people  buy tulip and daffodil to put in the dingy room they living in.
It have people living in London who don't know what happening in  the room next to them, far more the street, or  how other people living.	 London is a place like that. It	 divide up in little worlds, and you stay in the world you belong to and you don’t know anything about what happening in the other ones except what you read in the papers. Them rich people who does live in Belgravia and Knightsbridge and up in Hampstead and them other plush places, they would never believe what it like in a grim place like Harrow Road or  Notting  Hill. Them people who have car, who going to theatre and ballet in the West End, who attending premiere with the royal family, they don't know nothing about hustling two pound of brussel sprout and half­ pound potato, or queuing up for fish and chips in the smog. People don't talk about things like that again, they come to kind of accept th:it is so the world is, that it bound to have rich and poor, it bound to have some who live by the Grace and others who have plenty. That is all about it, nobody does go into detail. A poor man, a rich man. To stop one of them rich tests when they are going to a show in Leicester Square and ask them for a bob, they might give you, but if you want to talk about the conditions under which you living, they haven't time for that. They know all about that already. People get tired after a  time with  who poor  and who  rich  and who  catching

Arse and who	well off, they don't care any	more. It have a kind of communal feeling with the Working Class and the spades, because when you poor things does level out, it don't have much up and down. A lot of the men get kill in war and leave widow behind, and it have bags of these old geezers who does be pottering about the Harrow Road like if they lost, a look in their eye as if the war happen unexpected and, they still
can't realise what happen to the old Bnt'n. All over-London you would see them, going shopping with a basket,  or taking the dog for a walk in the park,  where  they will  sit  down on  the bench in winter and summer. Or you might meet them hunch-up in a bus-queue, or waiting to get the fish  and chips hot. On Friday or a Saturday night, they go in the pub and buy a big glass of mild and bitter, and sit down by a table near the fire and stay here coasting lime till the pub close. The old fellars do that too, and sometimes they walk up a street in a plush area with their cap in their hand, and sing in a high falsetto, looking up at the high windows, where the high and the mighty living, and now and then a window would open and somebody would throw down threepence or a tanner, and the old fellar have to watch it good else it roll in the road and get lost. Up in that fully furnished flat where the window open (rent bout ten or fifteen guineas, Lord) it must be have some woman that sleep late after a night at the Savoy or  Dorchester,  and  she  was laying under the warm quilt on the Simmons mattress, and she hear the test  singing.  No song or rhythm, just  a  sort  of musical noise so nobody could say that he begging. And she must be just get up and throw a tanner out the window. Could be she had a nice night and she in a good mood, or could be, after the night's sleep, she thinking about life and the sound of that voice quaver­ ing in the cold outside touch the old heart. But if she have a thought at all, it never go further than to cause the window to open and the tanner to fall down. In fact when the woman throw the tanner from the window she didn't even  look  down:   if a
man was a mile away and he was controlling a loudspeaker in 


the street moving up and down, the tanner would	have come the same way. Also, for	the old test who singing, it ain't have no thought at all about where this tanner come from, or who throw it, man, woman or child, it ain’t make no difference. All he know is that a tanner fall in the road, and he had to watch it else it roll and get lost. 
When you come,   to  think  of  it,  everything  in  life  like  that. Maybe afterwards if a friend go to that woman and say that the this is a lazy fellar and worthless, shit wouldn't throw any more money if he pass up that street. Or if the friend say he is a poor old man having a hard time she will throw a bob the next  time he pass.
People in this world don't know how other people does affect their lives.
Or else, the old fellars go by the people that queuing up for the cinema. Not so much by the one and sixes and two and nines, but by the three and twos and four shillings. And some of them old fellars so brazen that though it against the law to beg they passing the old cap around, and if they see a policeman they begin  to  sing or play  a old mouthorgan.  What  impulse does prompt people to give no one knows. Is never generosity-you could see some of them regret it as soon as they give. But is a kind of feeling of shame. One fellar give, and the others feel shame if they don’t put a penny in the old man hat. 
The grocery it had at the bottom of the street was like shop in the West Indies. It had Brasso to shine brass, and you could get Blue for when you washing clothes, and the fellar selling pitchoil.  He have the pitchoil in some big drum in  the  back  of the shop in the yard, and you carry your tin and ask for a gallon, to put in the cheap oil burner. The shop also have wick, in case the Wick in your burner go bad, and it have wood cut up in little bundles to start coal  fire.  Before  Jamaicans  start to invade Brit'n, it was a hell of a thing to pick up a piece of saltfish anywhere, or to get thing like pepper sauce or dasheen or even garlic. It had a continental shop in one of the back streets


In Soho, and that was the only place in the whole of London that you should have pikc up a piece of fish. But now, papa! Shop all about start to take in stocks of foodstuffs what West Indians like, and today is no trouble at all to get saldish and rice This test who had the grocery, from the time spades start to settle in the district, he find out what sort of things they like to at,. and he stock up with a lot of things like blackeye peas and red beans and pepper sauce, and tinned breadfruit and ochro and stnoke herring, and as lo.tlg as the spades spending money he don't care, in fact is big encouragement, 'Good morning sir,' and 'What can I do for you today, sir,' and 'Do come again.'
All over London have places like that now. It have tailor shop in the East End, near Aldgate Station, what owned by a cockney Jew fellar. Well papa, when you go there on a Saturday you can't find place to stand up, because the place full up with spades, and the Jew passing round cigars free to everybody. (Cigars is on Saturday, if you lime during the week he give you cigarettes.) Is a small shop, and on the walls have photo of all the black boxers in the world, and photo of any presentation or function what have spades in it. 
'Friend,'  Jew say, lighting up the cigar, 'when I make a suit and you go to the West End, people stand back and look at you. If I do anything you don't like, bring it back and I will fix it immediately. If you still do not like my work, I will refund your money. Who told you about this place, my friend?'
'A fellar I know.'
'Ah I Yes, I do a lot of business with you boys, and guarantee complete satisfaction. Have another cigar to smoke later.' And the test pulling cigar from all about and passing round to the boys.
This time so the assistant measuring up with tape, asking who want tight bottoms and loop in the waist for belt, and pulling down all kind of Cromby from the shelf to show the boys. By the time you ready to leave the shop the fellar have you feeling like

a lord even if you ain't give an order for a suit and you have him down one cigar.
'Come again, my friend,' he say as he give you another cigar for the road, and with the other hand he pull out a card from the top jacket pocket and hand you. 'Here is my card, and there is the telephone number. Open the door Jack,' and if the assist­ ant too busy he himself hustling to open the door for you.
Another Jew fellar in Edgware Road does come out on the pavement when you looking in the show-window and hold your elbow and push you in the shop, whether you want anything or not. But he too cagey: once he make a cheap garbadeen suit for a Jamaican and hit him twenty-five guineas, and since that time the boys give the shop a long walk. This fellar also used to put cloth in the window with a certain price, and when you go inside the price gone up couple guineas.
Well Tanty used to shop in this grocery every Saturday morn­ ing. It does be like a jam-session there when all the spade housewives go to buy, and Tanty in the lead. They getting on just as if they in the market-place back home: 'Yes child, as I was telling you, she did lose the baby…half-pound saltfish please, the dry codfish ... yes, as I was telling you ... and two pounds rice, please, and half-pound red beans, no, not that one, that one in the bag in the corner ...'
All poor Lewis business talk out in that shop with Tanty big mouth, for it ain't have no woman like stand up and talk other people business like Tanty, and it didn't take she long to make friend and enemy with everybody in the district. She too like the shop, and the chance to meet them other women and gossip. She
become a familiar figure to everybody, and even the English people calling she Tanty.  It  was Tanty  who  cause  the  shop­ keeper to give people credit. It had a big picture hang up on the wall of the shop, with two fellars in it. One is Mr Credit, and he surrounded with unpaid bills and he thin and worried, with his hand propping up his head. The other is Mr Cash, and he have on waistcoat with gold


chain and he have,  a big belly and he laughing and looking prosperous. Tanty used to look at the picture and suck she teeth.
One day she ask the shopkeeper if he don't know about trust 'Trust?• the shopkeeper say.
'Yes,' Tanty say. 'Where I come from you take, what you want and you pay every  Friday.'
'Oh, -credit,' the shopkeeper say, as if he please that he understand Tanty. 'We don't do business  like  that in this shop.'  And he point  to the  picture  on  the wall.
'But you should,' Tanty say. 'We is  poor people  and we don't always	have money to buy.'
Tanty keep behind the shopkeeper to trust; but he only smile when she tell him. Then one day Tanty buy a  set of  message and put it in she bag and tell him : 'You see that exercise books you have in the glasscase? Take one out and put my name in it and keep it under the counter with how much I owe you. Mark the things  I take  and I will  pay you on Friday please  God.'•
And Tanty walk out the white people shop brazen as ever.
When the Friday come, she pay what she owe
'I will only give you credit,' the shopkeeper say, to humour Tanty, but before long she spread the ballad all about that any­ body could trust if they want, and the fellar get a list of creditors on his hands. However, every Friday evening religiously they all paying up, and as business going on all right he decide to give in. He take down the picture and put up one of  the coronation of the Queen.
Everybody .in the district get to know Tanty so well that she doing as she like. You know how them greengrocers and barrow• boys don't  want you to touch• their goods at all because they put all the good things in front to make show and behind,  from  where they selling, they give all the rotten and bad ones. With Tanty it  ain't   have  none  of  that.
'I want that cabbage,' Tanty does say, and pull a big one out from in front, and all the others it was propping up fall down. 'No no, give me tomatoes from in front,' she say,  when  fcllars

taken rotten ones from behind to sell. If anybody else get on so, even English people, is bit trouble, but Tanty is all right. She try to spread the credit business on the Harrow Road, but them proprietors was different the fellar in the back street. 
In them bakeries in London, if you buy a bread they does hand it to you just like that, without wrapping it in paper or anything. But not Tanty.
'Where I come from,’ Tanty tell the bakery people, 'they don't hand you bread like that. You better put it in a paper bag for me, please.’
She used to get in big oldtalk with the attendants, paying no mind to people waiting in the queue.
'If I know Montego Bay!' she say. 'Why, I was born there, when I was a little girl I used to bathe in the sea where all those filmstars does go. If we does have a winter there? Well no, but it does be cold sometimes in the evening. Not like this cold! Lord, I never thought in my old age I would land up in a country like this, where you can't see where you going and it so cold you have to light fire to keep warm! Why I come to London? Is a long story, child, it worild take up too much time, and people standing in the queue waiting. But I mind my nephew from the time he was a little boy, and he there here in London, he have a work in a factory…’
Like how some people live in small village and never go to the city, so Tanty settle down in the Harrow Road in the Work• ing Class area. When Ma come home from work she used to ask about the outside world and Ma would tell she about tube train and Piccadilly Circus, and how the life so busy that if you don't watch out a car knock you down and you dead in the road.
‘Why you don’t take a tube and go and see the big stores it have in oxford street,’ Ma say, but Tanty shake her head.
‘I too old for that now,’ she say, ‘it don’t matter to me, I will stay ere by the Harrow Road.’
But all the same it rankle Tanty that she never travel in 

tube or bus in London,. and she make up she mind secretly to go if she get the. Chance and she have a good reason. Ma had this work at a Lyons Corner House, and she had to go out early every morning and come back late in the evening. She wash cup and spoon and dish and glass for five pounds a week. Ma work in the back, in the kitchen, but she was near enough to the front to see what happening outside of the kitchen. She get to know the regular faces, and she get to know cup and dirty dish and spoon like she never know before. All the wares used to come from a square hole where the attendants push them. Only from the washing up Ma form a idea of the popula­ tion of London: 'I never see so much dirty wares in my life,' she tell Tanty, 'it does have mountains of washing coming in. Where all these people come from?' Sometimes in the evening Ma go to see Agnes, but mostly she and Tanty sit down. before the fire knitting and talking about Jamaica.
Well one• morning Ma forget and went to work with the key to• open the cupboard what have all the rations in it, and Tanty didn't know what to do. Tolroy was out, ind the chil­ dren was spending time by Agnes, and she alone in the house. She try to pick the lock but is one of them Yale lock and she couldn't manage. Tanty was waiting for a good excuse to travel out of the district, and she decide to brave London and go to this place where Ma working to get the keys.
She put on the old fireman coat that Tolroy did get for her, and she tie a piece of coloured cloth on her head, and she went out to the Harrow Road. Tanty did hear how everybody saying that if you want to find out something you must ask a policeman, so though she see plenty people that she could ask she ignore them and look for a policeman. She •didn't see one till she reach by the Prince of Wales.
'You  could  tell  me where Greatport  Street  is,  please,'  Tanty say.
The policeman look at her close and say: 'Where?'

‘Greatport Street,’ Tanty say. 
The policeman scratch his head. ‘Are you sure of the name?’
‘Something like that,’ Tanty say, sure that the policeman would know. 
‘You don’t mean Great Portland Street?’ he say. 
‘Yes, that is it!’ Tanty say. ‘I thought it had “land” in it.’
‘The number 18B bus goes there,’ the policeman say. ‘The  conductor will tell you where to get off.'
'I don't like these buses it have in London,’ Tanty say. 'They too tall, I feel as if they would capsize. What about the tube train?'
'You could walk down to Westbourne Park Station,' the policeman say smiling.
'I won't have to change?' Tanty ask, getting frighten now at the idea.
'No, I don't think so.'
'Thank you very much,' Tanty say.
Though Tanty never went on the tube, she was like those people who feel familiar with a thing just by reading about it and hearing about it. Everybody does talk about the tubes and take them for granted, and even Tanty with she big mouth does have something to say: 'How you come? By tube? You travel on the Bakerloo Line? And you change to the Central at Tottenham Court Road? But I thought it was the Metropolitan Line that does pass there!'
But was plenty different when she find sheself in the station, make she turn back. But the thought that	she would never be able to say she went made her carry on. 
	Eventually Tanty did get to the place where Ma working after asking questions all the way. She straight into the place, and she peep through the square hole and she see Ma washing dish. 
	‘Ma,’ she call out, ‘you had me in one set of confusion this

morning. You left with the key to the cupboard and it ain't have nothing to cook.’
‘Come round here in the back,’ Ma say, frighten that Tanty stand up there talking so loud, and all the customers looking at she.
‘No child,’ Tanty say. ‘Just give me the key and I will go, you best do the white people work and don't stop.'
Ma come and give Tanty the key, and ask she how she get to the place.
'I come by tube,' Tanty say cool, as if she travelling every day. ‘How else you think? But I going back by bus.'
'Stay and eat a food as you here already,' Ma say.
'What!' Tanty say, 'eat this English food when I have peas and rice waiting home to cook? You must be mad! But don't let me keep you from your work.'
And Tanty went away, feeling good that she make the trip from Harrow Road at last.
'I hope this bus don't turn over,' she tell the conductor, because it didn't have room below and she had to go upstairs.
She was so frighten that she didn't bother to look out of the window and see anything, and when she get off at the Prince of Wales she feel relieved. Now nobody could tell she that she ain't travel by bus and tube in London.

When that first London summer hit Galahad he begin to feel so cold that he had to get a overcoat. Moses laugh like hell. ‘You though you get away from the weather, eh?’ he say. ‘You warm in the winter and cold in the summer, eh? Well is my turn now to put on my light suit and cruise about.’
'I don't know why I hot in the winter and cold in the summer,' Galahad say, shivering. 
But for all that, he getting on well in the city. He had a way,

whenever he talking with the boys, he using the names of the
places like they mean big romance as if to say 'I was in Oxford
Street' have more prestige than if he just say 'I was up the road.'
And once he had a date with a frauline, and he make a big
point of saying he was meeting she by Charing Cross, because
just to say 'Charing Cross' have a lot of romance in it, he remember
it had a song called 'Roseann of Charing Cross.' So this
is how he getting on to Moses:
'I meeting that piece of skin tonight, you know.' And then,
as if it not very important, 'She waiting for me by Charing
Cross Station.'
Jesus Christ, when he say 'Charing Cross,' when he realise
that is he, Sir Galahad, who going there, near that place that
everybody in the world know about (it even have the name in
the dictionary) he feel like a new man. It didn't matter about
the woman he going to meet, just to say he was going there made
him feel big and important, and even if he was just going to
coast a lime, to stand up and watch the white people, still, lt
would have been something.
The same way w1ilitliebig clock they have in Piccadilly Tube
Station, what does tell the time of places all over the world. The
time when he had a date with Daisy he tell her to meet him there.
'How you don't know where it is?' he say when she tell
him she don't know where it is. 'ls a place that everybody know,
everybody does have dates there, is a meeting place.'
Many nights he went there before he get to know how to
move around the city, and see them fellars and girls waiting,
looking at they wristwatch, watching the people coming up the
escalator from the tube. You could tell that they waiting for
somebody, the way how they getting on. Leaning up there,
reading the Evening News, or smoking a cigarette, or walking
round the circle looking at clothes in the glasscase, and every
time people come up the escalator, they watching to see, and if
the person not there, they relaxing to wait till the next tube come.
All these people there, standing up waiting for somebody. And

then you would see a sharp piece of skin come up the escalator,
in a sharp coat, and she give the ticket collector she ticket and
look around, and same time the fellar who waiting throw away
his cigarette and you could see a happy look in his face, and the
girl come and hold his arm and laugh, and he look at his wristwatch.
Then the two of them walk up the steps and gone to the
Circus, gone somewhere, to the theatre, or the cinema, or just
to walk around and watch the big life in the Circus.
Lord, that is life for you, that is it. To meet a craft there, and
take she out some place.
'What you think, Moses?' he ask Moses.
'Ah, in you I see myself, how I was when I was new to London.
All them places is like nothing to me now. Is like when
you back home and you hear fellars talk about Times Square
and Fifth Avenue, and Charing Cross and gay Paree. You say
to yourself, "Lord, them places must be sharp." Then you get
a chance and you see them for yourself, and is like nothing.'
'You remember that picture Waterloo Bridge, with Robert
Taylor? I went down by the bridge the other night, and stand
up and watch the river.'
'Take it easy,' Moses say wearily.’
But Galahad feel like a king living in London: The first time he take a craft out, he dress up good, for-one of the first things
he do after he get a work was to stock up with clothes like
stupidness, as if to make up for all the hard times when he didn't
have nice things to wear.
So this is Galahad dressing up for the date: he clean his shoes
until they shine, then he put on a little more Cherry Blossom
and give then a extra shine, until he could see his face in the
leather. Next he put on a new pair of socks-nylon splice in
the heel and the toe. He have to put on woollen underwear,
though is summer. Then the shirt-a white Van Heusen. Which
tie to wear? Galahad have so much tie that whenever he open
the cupboard is only tie he seeing in front of him, and many
times he just put out his hand and make a grab, and whichever

one come he wear. But for this date he choose one of those
woollen ties that the bottom cut off. Before he put on trousers
and jacket he comb his hair. That is a big operation for Galahad,
because he grow the hair real long and bushy, and it like a
clump of grass on the head. First, he wet the hair with some
water, then he push his finger in the haircream jar and scoop
out some. He rub the cream on his hands, then he rub his hands
in his head. The only mirror in the room is a small one that
Galahad have tie on to the electric light cord, and the way he
have it, it just a little bit higher than he is, so while he combing
the grass he have to sort of look up and not forward. So this
comb start going through the grass, stumbling across some big
knot in Galahad hair, and water flying from the head as the
nomy make a pass, and Galahad concentrating on the physiog)
my, his forehead wrinkled and he turning the head this way
and that. Then afterwards he t:aking the brush and touching the
hair like a tonsorial specialist, here and there, and when he
finish, the hair comb well.
When Galahad put on trousers the seam could cut you, and
the jacket fitting square on the shoulders. One thing with Galahad
had since he hit London, no foolishness about clothes: even
Moses surprise at the change. Now if you bounce up Galahad
one morning by the tube station when he coming from work,
you won't believe is the same feliar you did see coasting in the
park the evening before. He have on a old cap that was brown
one time, but black now with grease and fingerprint, and a
jacket that can't see worse days, and a corduroy trousers that
would shame them ragandbone man. The shoes have big hole,
like they laughing, and so Galahad Ry out the tube station,
his eyes red and bleary, and his body tired and bent up like a
piece of wire, and he only stop to get a Daily Express by the
station. For Galahad, like Moses, pick up a night work, because
it have more money in it. He wasn't doing electrician, but with
overertime he grossing about ttn so why worry? So while other
people going to work, Galahad coming from work. He does

cross the road and go by the bakery and buy a hot bread to take
home and eat. This time so, as he walking, he only studying
sleep, and if a friend bawl out 'Aye, Galahad!' he pass him
straight because his mind groggy and tired.
But when you dressing, you dressing. Galahad tailor is a
fellar in the Charing Cross Road that Moses put him on to and
the tailor surprise that Galahad know all the smartest and latest
cut. He couldn't palm off no slack work on the old Galahad at
all. And one thing, Galahad not stinting on money for clothes,
because he get enough tone when he land up in tropical and
watche kong. Don't matter if the test tell him twenty guineas or
thirtyfive pounds, Galahad know what he want, and he tell the
fellar is all right, you go ahead, cut that jacket so and so, and
don't forget I want a twenty-three bottom on the trousers.
And the crowning touch is a long silver chain h anging from
the fob, and coming back into the side pocket.
So, cool as a lord, the old Galahad walking out to the road, with
plastic raincoat hanging on the arm, and the eyes not missing one
sharp craft that pass, bowing his head in a polite 'Good even.
g' and not giving a blast if they answer or not. This is London, this is the life oh lord, to walk like a king with money in our pocke, not a worry in the world. 
Is one of those summer evenings, when it look like night 
would  never come, a magnificient evening, a powerful evening, 􀃧
rent finish paying, rations in the cupboard, twenty pounds in the
bank, and a nice piece of skin waiting under the big clock in
Piccadilly Tube Staaon. The sky blue, sun shining, the girls ain't have on no coats to hide the legs.
'Mummy, look at that black man!' A little child, holding on to the mother hand, look up at Sir Galahad. 'You musm't say that, dear!' The mother chide the child
But Galahad skin like rubber at this stage, he bend down and pat the child cheek, and the child cower and shrink and begin to cry.

‘What a sweet child !’ Galahad say, putting on the old English, ‘what's your name?'
But the child mother uneasy as they stand up there on the
Pavement with so many white p eople around: if th ey was alo ne
She might have talked a little, an d ask Galahad what part of the
World he come from, but instead she pull the child al ong and
She look at Galahad and give a sickly s ort of smile, and the old
Galahad, knowing how it is, smile back and walk on.
If that episode did happen around the fi rst time when he
Land up in London , oh Lo rd! he would hav e run to th e boys,
Telling them he have big ballad. But at this stage Galahad like
Duck back. when rain fall-everythin g running off. Thoug h it
Used to have times when he lay down there on the bed in the
Basement room in the Water, and all the exp eriences like that
Come to him, and he say 'Lord, what it is we people do in th is
World that we have to suffer so? What it i s we wa n t that the
White people and them find it so hard to give? A little wor k, a
Little food, a little place to sleep. We not asking for the sun, or the
Moon. We only want to get by, we don 't even want to g et on.'
And Galahad would take his hand from under the blanket, as
He lay there studying how the night befo re he was in the lavatory
And two white fellar s come in and sav ho w th ese black ba sta rds
Have the lavatory dirty, and they didn't know that he was there
And when he come out they say hello mate have a cigarette. And
Galahad watch the colour of h i s hand, and talk to it, say ing,
‘Colour, is you that causing all this, you know. Why the hell
you can’t be blue, or red or green, if you can't be white? You
know is you that cause a lot of misery in the world. Is not me,
you know, is you! I ain't do anything to infuriate the people and
them, is you! Look at you, you so black and innocent, and
this time so you causing misery all over the world!'
So Galahad talking to the colour Black, as if is a person,
Telling it that is not he who causing botheration in the place, but
Black, who is a worthless thin g for making trouble all about.
‘Black, you see what you cause to happen yesterday? I went to

look at that room that Ram tell me about in the Gate, and as
soon as the landlady see you she say the room let already. She
ain’t even give me a chance to say good morning. Why the hell
you can't change colour?'
Galahad get so interested in this theory about Black that he
went to tell Moses. 'Is not we that the people don't like' he
tell Moses, 'is the colour Black.' But the day he went to Moses
with this theory Moses was in a evil mood, because a new friend
did just get in a thing with some white fellars by Praed Street,
near Paddington Station. The friend was standing up there reading
in the window about rooms to let and things to sell, and it
had a notice saying Keep the Water White, and right there
the friend start to get on ignorant (poor fellar, he was new in
London) and want to get in big argument with the white people
Standing around. 
So Moses tell Galahad, 'Take it easy, that is a sharp theory
why you don't write about it.' 
Anyway all thought like that out of Galahad mind as he out
on a summer evening, walking down the Bayswater Road
on his way to the Circus. He go into the gardens, and begin to
walk down to the Arch, seeing so much cat about the place,
laymg down on the grass, sitting and talking, all of them in
pretty summer colours, the grass green, the sky blue, sun shining,
flowers growing, the fountains spouting water, and Galahad
Esquire strolling through all of this, three-four pounds in the
pocket, sharp clothe s on-lord oh lord-going to meet a firstclass
craft that waiting for him in the Circus. Once or twice,
as he get a smile here and there, he mad to forget Daisy and
try to make some headway in the park.
By the Arch, he meet one of the boys.
'Where you going,' the test say.
'Have a date, man, going to pick up a little thing down the
road.'
'Listen, listen here to the rarse this man talking, about how

colonials shouldn’t come to Brit'n, that the place overflowing
with spades.'
‘I ain’t have time, man, I late already.'
‘Lend me ten shillings.'
‘I can’t make it now, come round tomorrow.'
‘Oh God ease me up, man. A cup of char?'
Galahad give him a shilling and move away from the Arch,
Watching up at the clock on the Odeon although he have wriste
Watch. The clock saying halfpast seven and he have to meet
Daisy at eight. He start to walk a little faster, but was five past
When he find himself in the Circus.
Always, from the first time he went there to see Eros and the
Lights, that circus have a magnet for him, that circus represent
Life, that circus is the beginning and the ending of the world.
Every time he go there, he have the same feeling like when he
See it the first night, drink coca-cola, any time is guinness time,
Bovril and the fireworks, a million flashing lights, gay laughter,
The wide doors of theatres, the huge posters, everready batteries,
Rich people going into tall hotels, people going to the theatre,
People sitting and standing and walking and talking and laughing and buses and cars and Galahad Esquire, in all this, standing
There in the big city, in London. Oh Lord.
He went down the steps into the station, and Daisy was
Expecting him to come by tube so she watching the escalators,
And he walk up behind her and he put his hands over she eyes,
And that evening people in the tube station must be bawl to see
Black man so familiar with white girl. But Galahad feeling too
Good to bother about the loud tones in them people eyes. Tonight
Is his night. This was something he uses to dream about in
Trinidad. The time when he was leaving, Frank tell him:
‘Boy, it have bags of white pussy in London, and you will eat till
'you tired.’ And now, the first date, in the heart of London,
dressed to kill, ready to escort the number around the town,
anywhere she want to go, any place at all.
Daisy was dress up plenty, she look different than when she

in the Plant with a pair of jeans and a overalls on. All the grease
and dirt wash off the hands, the hair comb well, the dress is a
sort of cotton but it have all sorts of coloured designs on it
and It look pretty, and she have on lipstick for so. She look real
sharp, and w􀂵en he was coming up he notice the trim legs, and
the straight lines of the nylons, and the highheel shoes.
Daisy move his hands and say, 'Oh, it's you. I thought you
were commg by tube. And she look a little embarrass, but
Galahad didn't notice.
'What time it is now in Trinidad?' Galahad look at the big
clock, watching for Trinidad; the Island so damn small it only
have a dot and the name. 'That is where I come from 'he tell
Daisy, 'you see how far it is from England?'

'We'll be late,' Daisy say.
'Which part you want to go,' Galahad ask, 'anywhere at all.
Tonight we on a big splurge.'
'They're bowing The Gladiator at the Hippodrome, and I
want to see It.'
'Pictures! Is pictures you want to go to tonight?'
'Well it's Sunday and all the theatres are closed.'
'Who acting in The Gladiator?'
'Victor Mature.'
'Well if that is what you want, all right. But I was thinking
we could go some place and have a good time, being as is the
only night I have off for the whole week, and you too.'
So they went to this theatre that showing The Gladiator, and
Galahad feeling good with is iece of kin walking with him.
But when he look at prices to enter, he cou dn't help saying how
It was a lot of money, not that he mind, but he know that that
same picture would come and show for two and six. 
'This is the West End,' Daisy remind him.
'All right, even if is a pound we still going.'
After the picture they went to a restaurant and eat a big

Meal, and Galahad buy a bottle of French wine, telling the
Waiter to bring the best.
The summer night descend with stars, they walking hand in
Hand, and Galahad feeling hearts.
‘It was a lovely evening-' Daisy began.
‘Come and go in the yard,' Galahad say.
‘What?’ Daisy say.
‘The yard. Where I living.'
All this time he was sta lling, because he feeling sort of shame
To bring the girl in that old basement room, but if the date end
In fiasco he know the boys would never finish giving him tone
For spendig all that money and not eating.
Daisy start to hesitate but he make haste and catch a number
Twelve, telling she that it all on the . way home. When they hop
Off by the Water she was still getting on prim, but Galahad
Know was only grandcharge, and besides the old blood getting
Hot, so he walk Daisy brisk down the road, and she quiet as a
Mouse. They went down the bas ement steps and Ga lahad
Fumble the key, and when he open the door a whiff of stale food and old clothes and dampness and dirt food come out the door
And he only waiting to hear what Daisy would say.
But she ain't saying nothing, and he walk through the passage
And open the door and put the light on.
Daisy sit down on the bed and Galahad say: 'You want a
Cup of char?' And without waiting for any answer he full the pot in the tap and put it on the ring and turn the gas on. He feel so excited that he had to light a cigarette, and he keep
Saying Take it easy to himself.
‘Is this your room?' Daisy say, looking around and shifting
about as if she she restless.
‘Yes,’ Galahad say. 'You like it?'
‘Yes,’ Daisy say.
Galahad throw a copy of Ebony to her and she begin to turn
The pages. With all the excitement Galahad taking off the good clothes

carefully and slowly, putting the jacket and trousers on the
hanger right away, and folding up the shirt and putting it in
the drawer.
When the water was boiling he went to the cupboard and
take out a packet of tea, and he shake some down in the pot.
Daisy look at him as if he mad.
'Is that how you make tea?' she ask.
'Yes,' Galahad say. 'No fool ishness about it. Tea is te a-you
just drop some in the kettle. If you want it strong, you drop
ple nty. If you want it weak, you drop litt le bit. And so you
make a lovely cuppa.'
He take the kettle off and rest it on a sheet of Daily Express on the ground. He bring two cups, a spoon, a bottle of milk and
a packet of sugar.
'Fix up,' he say, handing Daisy a cup.
They sit down there sipping the tea and talking.
'You get that raise the foreman was promising you?' Galahad
ask, for something to say.
'What did you say? You know it will take me some time to
understand everything you say. The way you West •Indians
speak!'
'What wrong with it?' Galahad ask. 'Is English we speaking.'
And so he coasting a little oldtalk until the tea finish, and
afterwards he start to make one set of love to Daisy.
'It was battle royal in that basement manm he tell Moses afterwards,
and he went on to give a lot of detail, though all of that
1s nothing to a old veteran like Moses, is only to Galahad is new
because is the first time with a white number. Moses smile a
knowing smile, a tired smile, and 'Take it easy,' he tell Sir
Galahad.
• • •
Big city come from an orphanage in one of the country district
in Trinidad. When he was a little fellar, he hear some people

talking about the music the norphanage band does play. But
instead of hearing 'music' Big City thought he hear 'fusic' and
since thst time nobody could ever get him to say music.
‘listen to that sharp piece of fusic by Mantovanee, Moses.'
‘Man Big City, the word is "music" not "fusic".'
‘Ah, you only trying to tie me up. You think I don't know
English?’
When Big City get big he left the norphanage and he went
In the army in Trinidad. He used to eat so much food, you
Couldn’t see him behind the plate. It was there that he get the
Name Big City. He always talking about the big cities of the
World. 
‘Big city for me,' he would say. 'None of this smalltime village
life for me. Is New York and London and Paris, that is big life.
You think I going to stay in Trinidad when the war over?
place? No, not this old man.'
Big city had a way, he used to be grumpy and vex with every
Body until it was payday. You couldn't tell him a word until
Friday come.
	‘Big city, what, what happening man?'
‘Listen, why you -ing me up so? Why you don't - off and
leave me alone?'
‘But I only ask you what's happening, man.'
‘Leave me alone, get to - out.'
All the week he like that, but when he get pay on Friday, he
Sitting down on the counter-he used to be in the stores-and
Picking his toes and smiling, and calling out to everybody who
Come in.
‘Come and have a drink,' he would invite friend and stranger.
‘I have a bottle here.' He never mop a drink from anybody, it
was he who always giving, and he would talk about all the
big places in the world, how after the war he was going to work
on ships and go all about.
Little later that same day, some fellars would say: 'Big City, some wapee?'

'Listen to this man! I don't gamble, boy.'
But half an hour after Big City kneeling down in the circle,
a dollar bill crumple up and stick in his earhole, and some small
change before him.
By the time Monday come around he revert to 'haul your
arse' and 'stop -ing me up' when anybody talk to him.
War over, and Big City begin to work on ship and travel all
about. One day the ship dock in London and he went to
Piccadilly Circus and watch the big life. When the ship sail Big
City stay behind.
But with all the travelling and experience he still remain convinced
that it ain't have no word like 'music'.
'Where you going, Big City?'
'Nottingham Gate.'
'Is not Nottingham, boy, is Notting Hill.'
'You trying to - me up?'
'All right, all right. Where you living now?'
'Shepherd's Hill.'
How it is that Big City get a car, nobody know. But all of a
sudden the boys see him driving car all over London.
'Where you get that car, Big City?'
'Mind your own -ing business. You want a drive?'
The week he get this car he meet with a accident with a
number fortynine bus and he had was to go to court. He went
around by Moses moaning, with a lot of forms he had to full
up. Big City always confuse when he have forms to full up;
and in the old Brit'n it have bags of that to do. He and the
English woman he living with always arguing, is not that way,
no, you put the date in the wrong place, man, why you so
stupid, you can't see where it say date of birth in the next line?
So to avoid contention with the wife he does always go round
by Moses whenever he have forms to full up.
'How this accident happen?' Moses ask.
'Boy, them -ing bus drivers can't drive,

'You mean Gloucester Road.'
'Stop -ing me up, man, I tell you Gloucestershire Road. And
same time this bus fly round the corner-'
Moses help Big City to full up the forms.
Another thing, he like to go in for football pool, but up to
now he don't know how to full up the forms properly, and every
week he round by Moses.
'Boy, the day I win that £75,000, oh lord! It would be hell m
London city, boy. You know I nearly had them last week? I
was only one draw out-you sure you marking the nought in
the right place?'
'Man Big City,' Moses say, 'is time you learn to full up
the coupon for yourself, you know. It not hard. Let me show
you.'
But Big City went on as if Moses didn't speak. 'Blackpool
playing Aston Villa this week,' he say, 'that is a sure draw.
What you think of Arsenal?'
'Listen,' Moses say. 'I tired telling you, I don't believe that
football pool is for me. If I ever get money is by the sweat of the
brow, and not through winning anything.'
'You making joke, Moses! Last week two fellars win £75,000.
Why you don't take a chance? Is only a tanner a week I does
invest. Why you don't join the Littlewoods Happy Circle of
Investigators? Look it have a place there where you can put
your name and address on the coupon, and they will start
sending you forms.'
'Big City,' Moses say again, tired out with helping full the
form week after week, 'make a effort to learn, boy. You see
where it mark eight selections? You have to make a nought in
eight places. You can't go wrong even if you try. Right in the
spaces here.'
But Big City enter the pools every Wl".ek and never full up a
form himself yet. He try Littlewoods for two months, then he
give it up and switch to Shermans. After that he went to Hills,
then Vernon, then Cope, then he went back to Littlewoods.

'Never mind boy,' he tell Moses, 'one day I will win that
£75,000 and then you know what?'
'No, what?'
'Big city, boy, big city. Paris, Brussels, Berlin, Rome, Bagdan,
then after the States, San Francis, Chicago, New York, then
after one of them yacht to sail in the Me<literan. And women?
Women for so! Where all those bigshots does go? On the River
in Italy.'
'And what about the car you have now, you will give it to
your good friend Moses who full up the form for you, or when
you have all that money you forget your friends?'
'No boy. You know what I will do? I would like to have
money, and buy out a whole street of house, and give it to the
boy􀂶 and say: "Here, look place to live." And I would put a
notice on all the boards: "Keep the Water Coloured, No Rooms
For Whites.'' 
'But Big City, you only have mouth, man. I sure if you win
all that money you head straight back for Trinidad to eat a
breadfruit and saltfish and go Maracas Bay to bathe in the sea.'
'Who, me? No boy. I not saying.I mightn't go back. Come
to think of it is a good idea to go back like a lord and let all
them bitches see how much money I have. But wherever I
roam, I will land back in the old Brit'n. Nine-ten years I live
􀂷ere now, and I get to like the place. But Moses, serious boy,
1£ you get that £75,000 in the pools what you would do?'
'I never think about that, I tell you. I would never get money
that way.'
'You never know your luck, old man. Look, you remember in
'51 it had a Jamaica fellar what win some money in the pools.
You know what he do? He send for the whole family and he
buy three-four house in London. Now, he living easy, and that
wasn't even a £75,000. You could sit on your tail and say you
won't get it, but tell me Moses, if you get it, what you will do?'
'I don't know, I tell you. I does always think poor, the old
brain can't imagine what to do with all that money.'

But after City leave him Moses used to think bout that money,
how it would solve all the problems in the world. He used to
sec all his years in London pile up one on top of th 􀂐 other,
and he getting no place in a hurry, and the years gomg by,
and the thought make him frighten sometimes.
Although Big City have no work, yet he always have money,
for he does go in for big deals, though nobody ever know what
them big deals is. Once he went away for three months and when
he come back, he tell the boys he went for holiday in Wales.
But everybody suspect that the law catch up with City.
It have no other lime in London that Big City like more than
to coast by Marble Arch at the Orator's Corner on a summer
evening and listen to them fellars talking about how the government
this and that, or making big discussion on the colour
problem. In fact, this lime is a regular for the boys. On any
Sunday in the summer, in the sweet, lazy summer when them
days like they would never done, when all the fog and snow
gone, and night stay long to come, when you could put on a
hot jitterbug shirt and wear a light sharkskin pants, when them
white girls have on summer frocks and you could see legs and
shapes that used to hide under winter coats, when the sun
shining and the sky blue and a warm wind blowing across the
park, on any such Sunday evening, all the boys dressing up and
coasting lime by the Arch, listening to all them reprobates and
soapbox politicians, looking around to see if they could pick up
something in the crowd. From east and west, north and south,
the boys congregate by the Arch.
The first time Galahad ever went there, he amaze at how them
fellars saying all kind of thing against the government and the
country, and the police not doing them anything.
'Why is that, City?' he ask City.
'Is so it is in Brit'n,' Big City say. 'Listen, you always grumb­
ling and cursing about something or other, why you don't go
and talk to the crowd?'
'Yes, why you don't go, Galahad?' Moses start to poke fire.

'The people like to listen to the boys. I know you have a lot on
the chest, this is the place to get it off.'
Galahad start to hem. 'I can't just go and talk like that,' he say.
'I know the fellar who taiking on the colour problem,' City
say, 'I will tell him that you can give the people the real dope on
the question. What you say?'
Galahad start to grin foolishly and shrug his shou lders and
shift his foot but Moses, egging him on for so, until at last
it look like to save- face he really have to say something.
Big City went and talk to the fellar on the platform, and the
fellar raise his hands and tell the crowd: 'Ladies and gentlemen,
I myself am not a Colonial, but one who has been listening has
kindly volunteered to come forward and tell you more about
the question than I can.'
The boys cheer Galahad, and Galahad, feeling like a fool, had
was to go up on the platform, because he couldn't back out at this
stage. But one set of fright take him, he don't know what to say.
'Ladies and gentlemen-' he began.
'Talk louder man,' Big City say. 'We can't hear you.'
'The truth about this whole question,' Galahad went on desrately,
'is that we want work to do. I here in this country
long time and I can't get a regular work-'
'The people can't understand you boy,' Big City was out to
make it hard for Galahad. 'Talk good English.'
'Give me a chance, Big City,' Galahad say, finding it easier
to address one man in the crowd, and everybody start to laugh.
'Tell them about the time the foreman call you a nigger,' Big
City say.
'Give me a chance, Big City,' Galahad say.
But Big City start to exchange words with Galahad, and all
the people looking at the two of them and laughing, and Galahad
getting more and more vex, until at last he fly down from
the platform as if he going to attack Big City. But the boys hold
him back, though in truth Big City is a big fellar and Galahad
wouldn't have stand a chance

All the same, Galahad had it in for Big City fro1:° that time,
and he went about telling everybody that the next ttme he meet
him he would beat him like a snake. Nobody pay Galahad any
mind but one evening, right there by the Arch under some trees,
he w;s with the boys liming when they see Big City coming
down the road.
'Ah,' Moses say, stoking the fire, 'look Big City coming, Galahad.
Now is the time to beat him.'
Now Galahad is a fellar who full of grandcharge. One time in
Trinidad he had an enemy he was always threatening to beat.
Galahad had a brother and he used to tell him: 'Listen, whenever
Roy passing by here, I will charge him as if I going to beat
him flat, but whenever you see me do that, you must run and
come and hold me back.' The brother agree, and so Galahad
used to rush up to Roy whenever he passing by the house, and
make as if he going to attack, and the brother would come and
hold him back. This happen three-four times, until one day
when Galahad charge, the brother wasn't there. Roy hold on to
Galahad and give him a good licking.
Now, when he look and see Big City coming down the road
in truth, he get frighten and keep quiet, though Moses urging
him on.
Big City come up and say: 'I hear you looking for me,
Galahad.'
Galahad grin foolishly and say: 'What happening, Big City?'
Big City know he could of beat Galahad, so he didn't bother
with him. He just stand up and talk a little while with the boys,
then he take off after a thing that was walking by.
As soon as he get a safe distance away Galahad kneel down
and make the sign of the cross and say: 'I will beat Big City
like a snake the next time we meet.'
Big City used to have dreams, and he believe those dreams
as if they happen in truth.
'Last night,' he tell Moses, 'I went to see Lady -. You never
see a house like that, boy. Four inch carpet in the hallway,

butler opening the door, whisky and soda on the table, and a
high tea spread out on the sideboard. I spend the night there. I
meet Lord -, and other important people.'
'Ah Big City, you had another dream.'
'If I lie I die, the house is near Kensington Mansion, where all
those millionaires and diplomats does live.'
'You mean Kensington Palace.'
'Don't begin to - me up again. You think I don't know
London? I been here ten years now, and it ain't have a part that I
don't know. When them English people tell strangers they don't
know where so and so is, I always know. From Pentonvilla
right up to Musket Hill, all about by Claphand Common. I bet
you can't call a name in London that I don't know where it is.'
'All right Big City, take it easy. How you meet this Lady?'
'I was coasting•a lime by the Circus, and a big limousine pull
up, and the driver ask me if I from the West Indies, and I say
yes, and then he say that Lady - want to meet a West Indian,
if I would come. So you should know I hop in the car-car,
father, boy-and we drive to Millionaires Road.'
Another time he would come and say how he went to a party
that had all them bigshots like what you read about in the
Evening Standard column London Last Night.
'How your name wasn't in the papers then?'
'Oh, they wouldn't put my name. But if you look in today's
Standard you will see the party I was telling you about. It was
in the Savoy. Churchill was there ... '

Oh what a time it is when summer come to the city and all
them girls throw away heavy winter coat and wearing light
summer frocks so you could see the legs and shapes that was
hiding away from the cold blasts and you could coast a lime in
the park and negotiate ten shillings or a pound with the sports
as the case may be or else they have a particular bench near

the Hyde Park Corner that they call the Play Around Section
where you could go and sit with one of them what a time
summer is because you bound to meet the boys coasting lime in
the park and you could go walking through the gardens and see
all them pretty pieces of skin taking suntan and how the old
geezers like the sun they would sit on the benches and smile
everywhere you turn the English people smiling isn't it a lovely
day as if the sun burn away all the tightness and strain that was
in their faces for the winter and on a nice day every manjack
and his brother going to the park with his girl and laying down
on the green grass and making love in the winter you would
never think that the grass would ever come green again but if
you don't keep your eyes open it look like one day the trees
naked and the next day they have clothes on sometimes walking
up to the Bayswater Road from Queensway you could look on a
winter day and see how grim the trees looking and a sort of fog
in the distance though right near to you you ain't have no fog
but that is only deceiving because if somebody down the other
side look up by where you are it would look to them as if it
have fog by where you are and this time so the sun in the sky
like a forceripe orange and it giving no heat at all and• the
atmosphere like a sullen twilight hanging over the big city but it
different too bad when is summer for then the sun shine for
true and the sky blue and a warm wind blowing it look like
when is winter a kind of grey nasty colour does come to the
sky and it stay there and you forget what it like to see blue
skies like back home where blue sky so common people don't
even look up in the air and you feeling miserable and cold but
when summer come is fire in the town big times fete like
stupidness and you have to keep the blood cool for after all them
cold and wet months. you like you roaring to go though to tell
truth winter don't make much difference to some of the boys
they blazing left and right as usual all the year round to talk
of all the episodes that Moses had with woman in London would
take bags of ballad Moses move through all the nationalities in

the world and then he start the circle again everybody know
how after the war them rich English family sending to the
continent to get domestic and over there all them girls think like
the newspapers say about the Jamaicans that the streets of
London paved with gold so they coming by the boatload and
the boys making contact and having big times with the girls
working during the day and coming round by the yard in the
evening for a cuppa and to hit one or two but anyone of Moses
encounter is big episode because coasting about the Water it
ain't have no man with a sharper eye than he not even Cap could
ask him for anything and one summer evening he was walking
when he spot a number and he smile and she smile back and
after a little preliminary about the weather Moses take her for
a drink in the pμb and after that he coast a walk with she in
Kensington Gardens and they sit down on the grass and talk
about how lovely the city is in the summer and Moses say how
about coming to my yard she went but afterwards Moses nearly
dead with fright because the woman start to moan and gasp
and wriggle and twist up she body like a piece of wire when
Moses ask she what happen she only moaning Moses start to get
cold sweat because he know that if anything happen to the
woman and the police find her in his yard that he wouldn't
stand a chance the way how things against the boys from in
front so he begin to rub the woman down and pat she and try
to make she drink some water what happen to you Moses ask
frighten like hell that the woman might conk off on his hands
the woman only gasping and calling out for her mother and
Moses sweating just then the bell ring and Moses went to the
door and see Daniel Daniel he say boy a hell of a thing happening
here man I just pick up a woman up the road and bring
she in the yard and it look like if she dying what Daniel say as
if he don't understand wait here Moses say and he run back in
the room listen he tell the woman my friend come and you have
to go put on your clothes by the time Moses went and call
Daniel inside the woman was calm and cool as if nothing happen

she look all right to me Daniel say eyeing the piece as if he
ready to charge but Moses was too frighten to keep the woman
around though she sit down on the bed and begrn to talk calmly
boy he tell Daniel you wouldn't believe me but the woman did
look as if she going to dead you only lying because I happen
to come round while you have _ here Daniel say but Moses
so relieve that she looking all right that he didn’t bother with
Daniel he just tell her to come and go right away so he take
her out to the Bayswater Road to catch a bus the heel of my
shoe is coming off she say will you come with me to get it
fixed sure Moses say but as soon as they hop on the bus and it
begin to drive off Moses hop off again and leave she gomg to
Marble Arch what a gambol does go on in the park on them
summer nights oh sometimes the girls wishing it would get
dark quickly and you have them paradmg all down the Bayswater
Road from the Arch to the Gate and you could see them
fellars going up and talking for a minute and if they agree
they go in the park or somewhere else together and if not the
fellar walk on but these fellars that cruising they could size
up the situation in one glance as they pass by and know if they
like this one or that one you does meet all sorts of fellars from
all walks of life don't ever be surprised at who you meet up
cruising and reclining in the park it might be. yo􀂲r, boss or it
might be some big professional fella because it ain’t have no
discrimination when it come to that m the park m the summer
see them girls in little groups here and there talking and how
they could curse you never hear curse until one of them sports
curse you if you approach one and she don't like your terms
she tell you to - off right away and if you linger she tell you to
double – off but business is brisk in the park in the summer one
night one of them hustle from behind a tree pulling up her
clothes and she bawl out Mary the police and if you see how
them girls fade out and make races with the tight skirts holding
the • legs close together and the high heels going clopclop but
that was no handicap when they take off it have some fellars

who does go in the park only to cruise around and see what
they could see you could always tell these tests they have on a
coat with the collar turn up and they hand in they pocket and
they breezing through the park hiding from tree to tree like if
they playing hide and seek one night Moses was liming near the
park and a car pull up that had a fellar and a old-looking woman
in it the fellar start to talk friendly and invite Moses home for
a cup of coffee and Moses went just to see what would happen
and what happen was the fellar play as if he fall asleep and give
Moses a free hand because it have fellars who does get big
thrills that way but Moses didn't do anything because he know
what the position like and even though the fellar offer him three
pounds he smile and was polite and tell him that he sorry good
night introducing Galahad to the night life Moses explain to him
about short time and long time and how to tackle the girls and
he take Galahad one night and let him loose in the park Galahad
say I going to try and he broach a group under the trees
about a hundred yards from the corner bv the Arch but from the
time he begin to talk the girl tell him to - off Galahad stand
up to argue but Moses pull him away those girls not catholic
at all Galahad say Moses say it have some of them who don't
like the boys and is all the fault of Cap because Cap don't like to
pay let us cut through the park and go by Hyde Park Corner
Galahad say when they reach there Moses pick up a sharp thing
who was talking to two English fellars and he take he::r to the
yard afterwards the girl tell him how she used to take heroin
at one time and she show him the marks on her arm where she
inject the kick Moses stay with the thing regularly for a week
then he get tired and tell Cap he have a girl if he interested and
Cap give the usual answer so Moses tell him to come in the
yard in the night that the girl would be there Cap went and
Moses left the two of them in the room and went for a walk
when he come back three hours later Cap was in the bathroom
and the thing was standing up before the gas fire warming up
the treasury your friend have any money she ask Moses yes

Moses say he have bags of money he is the son of a Nigerian
king and when he goes back home he will rule more than a
million people the girl ask Moses if he want anything take it easy
Moses say when Cap come back Moses tell him to drop the
girl up the road and the girl went with Cap thinking that he
have plenty of money when Cap get to the corner he tell her
to wait he going to change a five-pound note as he don't go
around with small change and he left the girl standing up there
and never went back meantime Moses sit down on the bed and
the bed fall down when Cap come back he say Cap you are a
hell of a man you break my bed Cap say sorry Moses say this is
the third time you break my bed Cap say it was warm and nice
in the bed Moses say what I will tell the landlord this thing
happenino so often and he had was to put a box and prop up
the bed to sleep summer does really be hearts like if you start
to live again you coast a lime by the Serpentine and go for a
row on the river or you go bathing by the Lido though the
water never warm no matter how hot the sun is you would be
feeling hot out of the water but the minute you jump in you
start to shiver and have to get out quick but it does be as if
around that time of the year something strange happen to everybody
they all smiling and as if they living for the first time so
you get to wondering if it ain't have a certain part of the population
what does lie low during the cold months and only take to
the open when summer come for it have some faces in the Water
that Moses never see until summer come or maybe they have
enough money to go Montego Bay in winter and come back
to the old Brit'n when they know the weather would be nice
listen to this ballad what happen to M°'es one summer night
one splendid summer night with the sky brilliant with stars
like in the tropics he was liming in Green Park when a English
fellar come up to him and say you are just the man I am looking
for who me Moses say yes the man say come with me Moses
went wondering what the test want and the test take him to a
blonde who was standing up under a tree and talk a little so

Moses couldn't hear but Blondie shake her head then he take Moses to another one who was sitting on a bench and she say yes so the test come back to Moses and want to pay Moses to go with the woman Moses was so surprise that he say yes quickly and he went with the thing and the test hover in the
background afterwards he ask Moses if he would come again
and Moses say yes it look like a good preposition to me I don't
mind and he carry on for a week the things that does happen in
this London people wouldn't believe when you tell them they
would cork their ears when you talk and say that isn't true but
some ballad happen in the city that people would bawl if they
hear right there in Hyde Park how them sports must bless the
government for this happy hunting ground the things that
happen there in the summer hard to believe one night two
sports catch a fellar hiding behind some bushes with a flash
camera in his hand they mash up the camera and beat the
fellar where all these women coming from you never know but
every year the ranks augmented with fresh blood from the
country districts who come to see the big life in London and the
bright lights also lately in view of the big set of West Indians
that storming Brit'n .it have a lot of dark women who in the
racket too they have to make a living and you could see them
here and there with the professionals walking on the Bayswater
Road or liming in the park learning the tricks of the trade it
have some white fellars who feel is a big thrill to hit a black
number and the girls does make them pay big money but as far
as spades hitting spades it ain't have nothing like that for a
spade wouldn't hit a spade when it have so much other talent
on parade don't think that you wouldn't meet real class in the
park even in big society it have hustlers one night Moses meet
a pansy by Marble Arch tube station and from the way the test
look at him Moses know because you could always tell these
tests unless you real green you have a lovely tie the pansy say
yes Moses sy you have a lovely hat yes Moses say you have a
very nice coat yes Moses say everything I have is nice I like you

the pansy say I like you too Moses say and all this time he
want to dead with laugh I have a lovely model staying in my flat
in Knightsbridge the pansy say she likes to go with men but I
don't like that sort of thing myself would you like to come to
my flat sure Moses say we will go tomorrow night as I have an
important engagement tonight I will meet you right here by
the station the test say but so many people are here Moses say I
might miss you if you don't see me you can phone but what
will we do when I come to your flat Moses say playing stupid
and the test tell him what and what they wouldn't do one night
he and Galahad was walking up Inverness Terrace when a car
pass going slow and the door open and a fellar fling one of the
sports out the poor girl fall down and roll to the pavement all
the other sports in the area rally and run up to she and pick
she up and ask she what happen she say she went with the
fellar but he didn't want to pay and she give him two cuff in
his face and he pitch she out the car another night a big
Jamaican fellar take two home and had them running out of the
house and he throw their clothes for them from the window
people wouldn't believe you when you tell them the things that
happen in the city but the cruder you are the more the girls
like you you can't put on any English accent for them or play
ladeda or tell them you studying medicine in Oxford or try to
be polite and civilise they don't want that sort of thing at all
_they want you to live up to the films and stories they heac...a􀃂
black people living primitive in the jungles of the world that is_
why you will see so many of them African fellars in the city
with their hair high up on the head like they ain't had a trim
for years and with scar on their face and a ferocious expression
going about with some real sharp chicks the cruder you are
the more they like you the whole blasted set of them frustrated
like if they don't know what it is all about what happen to you
people Moses ask a cat one night and she tell him how the black
ws so nice and could give them plenty thrills people wouldn't
believe or else they would cork their ears and say they don't

want to know but the higher the society the higher the kicks
they want one night Moses meet a nice woman driving in a
car in Piccadilly and she pick him up and take him to a club in
Knightsbridge where it had a party bags of women and fellars
all about drinking champagne and whisky this girl who pick
him up get high and start to dance the cancan with some other
girls when they fling their legs up in the air they going around
to the tables where the fellars sitting Moses sit down there
wondering how this sort of thing happening in a place where
only the high and the mighty is but with all of that they feel
they can't get big thrills unless they have a black man in the
company and when Moses leave afterwards they push five pounds
in his hand and pat him on the back and say that was a jolly
good show it have a lot of people in London who cork their
ears and wouldn't listen but if they get the chance they do the
same thing themselves everybody look like they frustrated in the
big city the sex life gone wild you would meet women who beg
you to go with them one night a Jamaican with a woman in
Chelsea in a smart flat with all sorts of surrealistic painting on
the walls and contemporary furniture in the G-plan the poo1
fellar bewildered and asking questions to improve himself because
the set-up look like the World of Art but the number not interested
in passing on any knowledge she only interested in one thing
and in the heat of emotion she call the Jamaican a black bastard
though she didn't mean it as an insult but as a compliment under
the circumstances but the Jamaican fellar get vex and he stop
and say why the hell you call me a black bastard and he thump
the woman and went away all these things happen in the blazing
summer under the trees in the park on the grass with the daffodils and tulips in full bloom and a sky of blue oh it does really
be beautiful then to hear the birds whistling and see the green
leaves come back on the trees and in the night the world turn
upside down and everybody hustling that is life that is London
oh lord Galahad say when the sweetness of summer get in him
he say he would never-leave the old Brit'n as long as he live

and Moses sigh a long sigh like a man who live life and see
nothing at all in it and who frighten as the years go by wondering
what it is all about.

It had a fellar call Five Past Twelve. A test look at him and
say, 'Boy, you black like midnight.' Then the test take a second
l􀂭d say, 'No, you more like Five Past Twelve.'
􀂮ome from Barbados. During the war when Yankee was
operung up base in Trinidad fellars was making a lot of money
and the Five went to take' part. One time he was taking out a
Trinidad girl and the boys in the district didn't like it. They
tell Five to leave the girl alone but Five ain't pay them no mind:
the next night he was coasting with the girl round Queen's
Park Savann•ah. The boys get a tin of pitch oil and throw on
Five and start to run after him with a box of matches.
Right after the war Five come to England to hustle and the
next thing you know he had on RAF uniform doing three years
with them. When the three years up Five get a work driving
truck across the country.
Five was a fellar, from the time he see you, he out to borrow
money. You hardly have time to ask him what happening than
he ask you if you could lend him ten shillings till Friday please
God. So that all the boys start to take in front : from the time
they see Five, they ask him to lend them two and six, that
things really brown.
'Ah,' Five say, disappointed, 'you only asking me because
you know I was going to ask you.'
'No Five, I really bawling. Lend me two and six.'
Five have woman all over London, and no sooner he hit the
big city than he fly round by Moses to find out what happening,
which part have fete and so on. For Five like a fete too bad.
The time when the Lord Mayor did driving through London,
it had a steel band beating pan all in the Circus, and you should

know Five was in the front, jumping up as if is a West Indian
carnival.
'They should have more fete like this, in London,' Five tell
Moses. 'They too slack in this city the people too quiet. I wonder
when the Lord Mayor would take a drive again?'
'If you in town on Saturday,' Moses say, 'Harris giving a dance
in St Pancras Hall.'
'But how you mean I' Five say. 'I must go to that, boy.'
Harris is a fellar who like to play ladeda, and he like English
customs and thing, he does be polite and say thank you and he
does get up in the bus and the tube to let woman sit down, which
is a thing even them Englishmen don't do. And when he dress,
you think is some Englishman going to work in the city, bowler
and umbrella, and briefcase tuck under the arm, with The Times
fold up in the pocket so the name would show, and he walking
upright like if is he alone who alive in the world. Only thing,
Harris face black.
One time Moses meet Harris by Queensway buying daffodil
from a barrow boy.
'Ah, you going in for horticulture now,' Moses tone.
The old Harris smile. 'No, I'm going to have high tea with
Lord -'s daughter, and I thought it would be a nice gesture
to take some flowers along.'
Man, when Harris start to spout English for you, you realize
that you don't really know the language. Harris moving among
the bigshots, because of the work he does do, which is to organize
little fetes here and there, like dance and party and so on.
And every time Harris worried if Five would tum up, because
Five like to make rab and have Harris feeling small, though
it does only be fun he making, for he not a malicious fellar at
heart.
That fete in St Pancras Hall the Saturday night was big times.
Harris had everything under control. He had a steel band to
play music, a bar for the boys to drink, and he know already
that bags of people coming to the fete from the number of
Ill

tickets that he sell. So there Harris is, standing up by the door
in black suit and bow tie, greeting all English people with a
pleasant good evening and how do you do, and a not so pleasant
greeting for the boys, for if is one thing he £raid is that the boys
make rab and turn the dance into a brawl. That never happen
in a big way yet, but still he always have the fear, and he always
have a word for the boys as they come: 'See and b;:have yourselves
like proper gentlemen, there are a lot of English people
here tonight so don't make a disgrace of yourselves.'
Of course, none of the boys paying to go to Harris dance,
they only breezing in and saying good evening Mr Harris.
Harris can't do anything about that, and in order to avoid contention
by the door he does only shrug his shoulders and allow
them to pass. But all the time he keeping an eye open for Five,
praying that he would be out of town on business, for Five
does make it his business to pick on Harris because he so ladeda.
But Five never fail to appear, with four or five white chicks
holding on to him. And from the minute he burst through the
door with a long jacket draping across the knees he bawling
out: 'Harris, you old reprobate! What happening?'
Harris naturally feel bad that in front of all the English people
Five getting on so. He pull Five to one side while the girls go
inside.
'Listen man,' Harris plead with Five, 'I want you to make an
effort to behave and comport yourself properly tonight. I have a
distinguished gentleman and his wife here tonight. Try to get
on decently just for once.'
But nothing could rouse Five more than to approach him like
this.
'But Harris man, you lookin’ prosperous, things going good
with you. I hear you did make bags of money out of that fete
you had in Kilburn last Saturday. You think you will make a
lot tonight? I hear you have steel band-oh God, fete like
stupidness!'

'I am warning you Five,' Harris say. 'If you behave disgracefully
I shall have to put you out.'
Five stand back and look at Harris. 'You know you wouldn't
do that to your good friend,' he say. 'Man, sometimes you get on
like if we didn't grow up together, don't mind you born in
Jamaica and spent time there before you come to Trinidad. You
remember them lime we used to coast by Gilda Club in Charlotte
Street in Port of Spain? You remember the night when
Mavis make you buy ten rum for she, and then she went behind
the rumshop and tell you to come.'
Harris look around desperately. 'Don't talk so loudly, man,'
he tell Five. 'It seems you are drunk already. I hope you haven't
brought any weed here tonight.'
'How you mean, I must hit a weed before I get high,' Five
say. 'Later on when you finish come and see me and we will
go in the back and have a puff.'
'I won't touch that disgusting drug,' Harris say, 'and you had
better not smoke it here. I am warning you, Five. I really have
distinguished people here-'
'Ah, you does say so every time I come to any of your fete,'
Five say. 'You think you could fool me? You forget I know
you from back home. Is only since you hit Brit'n that you getting
on so English.'
And with that Five push past Harris and float into the ballroom
looking for the cats he briog with him.
By the door poor Harris wipe his face with a white handkerchief.
Moses,' he say, when Moses appear with a frauline, 'please
􀂲Pan eye on Five for me tonight. I don't want any trouble.'
Moses say, 'Sure, Harris. Let me introduce you to my girl.'
'Pleased to meet you,' Harris say quickly, for plenty people
coming in.
Behind Moses Tolroy appear with a English chick, and behind
him Ma and Tanty, and behind them Lewis with a little thing
that he pick up to help him live bachelor life.

Tolroy and his girl go in quiet, followed by Lewis and his
girl, but Tanty tug Ma and make her stand up.
'Harris!' Tanty scream out. 'You don't know me? You don't
remember neighbour who used to live behind you in George
Street?'
'I'm afraid-' Harris start to stammer.
'But look how big the boy get!' Tanty bawl. 'I didn't believe
Tolroy when he tell me. Tolroy say how you living in London
for a long time, and that you doing well for yourself. I tell
Tolroy: "Not little Harris what used to run about the barrackyard
in shirttail’ And Tolroy say yes, is you self. I tell him I
don't believe, so he say come tonight to the dance and you will
see for yourself. Well, to tell you the truth, I don't go anywhere
at all, you could ask Ma here, but when I hear that is you who
giving this fete I say I must come and see you. Ma, look at little
Harris how big he get! But the years pass quickly!'
'Yes, yes, I remember you,' Harris say quickly, giving Tanty
a push.
But Tanty didn't budge. 'Don't push,' she say, 'have some
respect for your elders. I not going to dance until you come
inside. I want the first set with you. It still have some life in the
old hen. But bless my eyesight I' she begin again as if she just
come in. 'Look at little Harris what used to thief fowl egg
under the house!' And she went inside with Ma shaking her
head from side to side.
Inside the hall was a real jam session. The girls stand up in
groups here and there, and the boys liming out by the bar,
some of them with their girls. Like Marble Arch in the summer,
any of Harris fete is a get-together of all the boys, wherever it
happen to be. Big City, Galahad, Daniel, Cap, Bart, all of
them leave the night work they have to hit this fete, and Moses
as usual like a minor master of ceremoies with the boys,
giving them all the latest lowdown and ballad as they coast a
drink.
'All you see that?' Moses say. 'Look Tolroy bring the whole

family to Harris fete. Oh God, what it coming to now? It look like Saltfish Hall in London’
Saltfish Hall was the name of a place in one of the small islands
where it have a sign, Wash Your Foot And Jump In, and it have
two bucket of water near the door, and all them old geezers
come in from the fields and wash their foot and join the fet’
in the hall. 'Tolroy have a sharp thing with him,' the old Galahad observe.
'You did see him dancing with the old lady?' Big City say.
Oh lord, what it is happening in this London I This fete like a real bacchanal in the Princes Building in Port of Spain I Who having a drink on me?' 'Tolroy I ' Moses shout, and when Tolroy come ali the boys begin to give him tone.
'What happen, you couldn't leave the old lady home?'
'You think this is Jamaica? You bringing old hen to dance?'
'Who is that woman with you, Tolroy? Give me an intro, man.'
'Bring she over here to have a drink.'
All this time the steel band blasting some hot numbers and
the old Five, whenever he see Harris watching him, starting to
jock waist for so, and fanning with his jacket, and jumping up
like if is a real carnival slackness, only to make Harris get vex.
Harris moving about the crowd saying hello to everybody and
hoping they are having a good time. It really look like he have
some ladeda there for it have three or four of them sitting at a
table in the c0rner drinking, but none of them dancing, though
is two man and two woman.
'Harris, who is them people who sitting down there and not
dancing?' Moses ask.
‘Those are my personal guests,' Harris say. 'Moses, are you keeping an eye on Five for me? I am sure he has some weed
on him-look, you could see from his behaviour that he is not
normal. Do you think I should have him put out?'
'Take it easy,' Moses say, 'the old Five out of this world, but
he ain't misbehaving yet.'

'I must go over to my guests,' Harris say.
'Have one before you go,' Moses say, but Harris was in the
crowd by this time, making his way to the table in the corner.
'How are you getting on?' Harris ask one of th e young women
at the table, like an attendant when you trying on a new p air
of shoes.
'Fine,' she say, looking up at Harris. 'The steel band music
just fascinates me. How do they manage to get such melody
from the oil drums?'
'Oh, they practise a lot,' Harris say. 'Is this the first time you've
heard them?'
'No, I heard a band on the BBC the other evening-I don't
know if it was this one.'
Harris feel it was up to him to ask the thing to dance, seeing
like they look shy to take the floor, so he ask the girl and she hem
a little then she get up.
Now all this time Tanty was looking for Harris, and when he
take the floor with this sharp thing she spot him dancing. Tanty
get up and push away dancers as she advance to Harris.
'My boy!' she say, putting she hand on his shoulder 'I been
looking for you all over. What happening, you avoiding the old
lady, eh? Too much young girl here to bother with Tanty, eh?'
Harris get so vex, but he know that if he talk rough to Tanty
she might get on ignorant. Lucky for him he was dancing near
the outside of the crowd, so he stop and draw aside.
'Listen,' he say to Tanty, 'can't you see I am dancing with
this young lady?'
'What happen for that?' Tanty say, eyeing the white girl who
look so embarrass. 'You think I can't dance too? I had a set
already with Tolroy, ask him.'
 'Well,' Harris say, trying hard to keep his temper, 'will you
kindly wait until I am finished? We shall dance the next set'
'You too smart, whe n the next set come I wouldn't find you,'
Tanty say, taking a firm hold of Harris. 'Tell this girl to unlace
you: you know what they playing? "Fan Me Saga Boy FanMe," and that is my favourite calypso. These English girls don't
know how to dance calypso, man. Lady, excuse him,' and before
Harris know what happening Tanty swing him on the
floor, pushing up she fat self against him. The poor fellar can't
do anything, in two-twos Tanty had him in the centre of the
floor while she swinging she fat bottom left and right.
While the other fellars calling out to one another to watch
how Tanty dancing with Harris, Five was real high, out of this
world, a kind of frozen smile on his face, and a look in his eyes
as if he seeing things men does only see in their dreams. But he
was quick enough on the draw to see the white girl stand up
there helpless while Tanty take Harris away.
'Moses,' Five say, 'look one of Harris distinguished guests
stand up there by sheself.'
'Go and dance with she, Galahad,' Moses say, urging him on,
but Galahad hanging back.
'I bet you I dance with she,' Five say.
'I bet you you don't,' Moses say.
Five went up to the girl before she had time to make her way
back to the table. Nobody don't know to this day what Five tell
the girl, if he just pick she up and start to dance or if he say
may I have this dance or if he say shall we. Afterwards he tell
the boys he only went up and wink at she and she was m his
arms before he know what was happening. But whichever way
it was, Five was closehauling this number like if the band playing
a slow, sentimental fox instead of Fan Me Saga Boy Fan Me.
Half the boys saying, 'Look how Tanty have Harris!' and the
other half saying, 'Look at the old Five beating close to the wmd
with Harris girl!'
Somehow or other Harris manage to get loose from Tanty
and rush to where Moses and Galahad standing.
'Moses!' he say, 'I will really have to put Five Past Twelve out
of the hall. He has been smoking weed and he is not responsible
for his actions.'
'Take it easy,' Moses say, 'the old Five enjoying himself. You

can't see the girl dancing with him? If she didn't want to dance
she didn't have to.'
'Well, I don't like it,' Harris say. 'The next time I have a fete,
attendance will be by invitation only. You boys always make a
disgrace of yourselves, and make me ashamed of myself.' And
Harris went off like a steam engine.
'What is the trouble here?' Big City say, coming from the
Gents where he was hitting an end of weed that Five pass
on to him.
'You missing big times,' Galahad say. The quarrel between
them was long forgotten. 'Harris was dancing with Tanty, and
now he vex that Five dancing with one of his girls.'
'Look at the old Five, man!’ Moses say, admiring the dancers.
'Big City,' Galahad say, suddenly remembering the time in
Hyde Park when Big City did jockey him to stand up on the
platform and address the crowd, 'I bet you not as brave as Five.
I bet you don't go and ask the other girl to dance-that one over
there by the table sitting down with them two fellars.'
'Ah,' Big City say, 'who want to dance with them -up people?
Harris always bringing some of them ladeda here.'
'I bet you don't,' Galahad say.
'You talking to Big City, boy,' Big City say.
'Ten like you don't,' Galahad say.
'I mad to go over there and ask she to dance,' City mutter.
'Harris will throw you out if you interfere with his distinguished
guests,' Galahad say.
'You don't know Big City, boy,' Moses join the jockeying.
'You really don't know Big City, else you wouldn't talk so.'
By this time Big City was flying across to the table. Again,
nobody ever get to find out what Big City say or what he do.
Some of the boys say it was because the other girl was dancing
with Five, and that give she courage. But however it was, the
girl get up and start to dance with Big City
'Galahad,' Moses say, standing up in the corner and watching
the proceedings, 'the things that happening here tonight never

happen before. I have a feeling you will see a lot before this fete
over. Watch yourself, and if you see fight run like hell, because
if things open up hot I outing off fast.'
At this stage the fete in full swing, nearly everybody dancing,
only the old Moses stand up in the corner with Galahad, telling
him ballads about the fetes that gone before, and lowdown about
some of the boys.
'I don't see Cap dancing,' Galahad observe.
'Cap take up two girl and he gone home long time,' Moses􀃏
say. 'He don't stick around much 1if he could pick up something.’
'Bart look like if he drunk.'
'Poor fellar, he must be still studying that girl what let him
down. He thought he might have found her here-when h: first
come in you didn't see how he went through the hall like a
detective looking at everybody? Bart would never find that girl
again, but he won't take my advice
'I see Daniel buying a lot of dnnks for them girls, Galahad
say.
'That is his line, man. He like to do things bke that. You will
notice that the boys bring in a lot of girls, but don't buy anything
for them-they just leave it to the old Daniel, and if he lucky
when the fete finish he get to go home with one of them.'
Well things warm up fast in St Pancras Hall that Saturday
night. Around half-past ten a Jamaican fellar bust a cocacola
bottle over Five head because Five was dancing too close with
his girl. Big City finish dancing and he beating pan in the steel
band and every now and then jumping up when the weed hit
the sky and screaming out for everybody to dance or come and
beat pan in the band. Bart drunk as hell and he sitting in a corner
holding his head and staring mto space. Tanty pulling Tolroy
away from his woman saying that she tired and want to go home.
Lewis like if he is the happiest man in the hall how he get this
divorce from Agnes, and he going to everybody and telling them
how he used to thump she every night.
 It look as if Moses know everybody tn the hall, for it ain’t

have a fellar who pass what didn't ask him what happening.
'How you know so much people, boy?' Galahad ask.
'I didn't come to London yesterday,' Moses say. 'I was among
the first set of spades what come to Brit'n. And then, it ain't
have so many places the boys could go to, so you bound to
meet them up sooner or later. Long time was the old Paramount
in Tottenham Court Road. I mean, them was days. It don't have
nothing like that again.'
'Better fete than this?' Galahad ask.
'Better fete than this!' Moses say. 'Boy, this ain't nothing. The
boys used to overflow into the road when it had a lime there on a
Saturday. One time a Jamaican fellar take off all his clothes to
fight an Irishman opposite a pub there. And talk about weed!
Everybody used to be as high as the sky.'
'You ever hit a weed Moses?'
􀄐 I hit a weed, I do everything for experience.'
'How you feel when you smoke if?’
'At first you feel bad but afterwards like nothing matter in
the world. You will die laughing at anything, and you feel as if
you walking on air. But I don't bother with that again. One
year I was working in the Post Office-every year around Christmas
time they does take on fellars to help with the work-and it
had a Jamaican who used to hit the weed regularly at work. I
used to pass by him and say, "Ah papa, like you high I" and he
used to look at me and smile.'
'You know where to get? I would like to try one.'
'It have plenty of trouble in that, but the way how you ask
me remind me about them English fellars. Is a funny thing, but
sometimes you walking down the road and all them who you pass
ask you the same thing. They like the weed more than anybody
else, and from the time they see you black they figu re that you
know all about it, where to make contact and how much to pay.
But I not in that racket. In fact I don't know any of the boys
who in it, though now afld then you would see them high. If

you want to have a go you better ask Five when he come down
to earth.'
Big City and Five come up to them during a break and all of
them went to the bar to have a drink.
'This man Harris only fast!’ Five say. 'Distinguish guest!
How you don't know I fix up a little thing with the skin? Who
you think taking she home when the fete over?
'But what about all them girls you bring with you?' Galahad ask. 
􀀃􀀄
Five wave his hand in the air. 'One today, one tomorrow,’ he
say. 'Listen, any of them you like you could have. Daniel! ' he call out to the other end of the bar, 'you treating the girls right?’
Daniel stick his thumb up in the air like them RAF fellars and
smile. 'That man is a real friend,' Five say. 'How you make out
with the other one, City?'
'As you say,' Big City answer, 'Harris only fast. But she don't
want to leave the other girl, so we will have to go together.
'That is all right, boy,' Five say, 'anything goes. Jesus Christ,
it making hot in here, though. What happen Moses, I ain’t see
you dancing?'
'I had one or two,' Moses say, 'But you know the old man,
always taking things easy.'
'How your head, Five?' Galahad ask.
'It all right, man, it only break a cocacola bottle. You know,
I would have beaten that - if youall didn't hold me back. But
we make back friends after.'
Harris come to the bar as if nothing happen and order a
lemonade.
'What time this fete overing, Harris?' Five ask him.
'At the usual time, half-past eleven,' Harris say.
'Oh Christ,' Five say, 'I don't know why in a big city like
London you can't have a fete till morning. Look how it is back
home, they have non-stop dance, you dance till you fall down 
on the ground, the moon go, the sun come, evening come,
night come again and still the boys on the floor. Why the arse


London Transport can't run bus and tube all night for people
to go home?'
'I wish you would watch your language,' Harris say. 'You
don't know it, but there are decent people around you.'
'Yes,' Big City say, 'stop -ing up a good time, Five.'
'Take it easy boys,' Mose s say.
'Another thing,' Harris say, drinking the lemonade and forgetting
to speak proper English for a minute, 'is when the fete
finish and the band playing God Save The Queen, some of you
have a habit of walking about as if the f ete still going on, and
you, Five, the last time you come to one of my dances you was
even jocking waist when everybody else was standing at attention.
Now it have decent people here tonight, and if you don't get on
respectable it will be a bad reflection not only on me but on all
the boys, and you know how things hard already in Brit'n. The
English people will say we are s till uncivilised and don't know
how to behave properly. So please boys, do me a favour, and
when the band play God Save The Queen, stand up to attention.'
'All right Mr Harris,' Five say, 'anything you want. If you
want me to leave right now I will leave.' Then he change his
tone. 'Come and have a drink with the boys, man. You haven't
had one for the night.'
‘You know I don't drink,' Harris say.
'Ah, that is now, but you remember them days in Port of
Spain when-'
But 􀂳arris went away before Five could finish stirring up the:
memories, to tell the other boyμo remember to stand s till when
the band playing God Save The Queen.

It had one bitter season, when it look like the vengeance of
Moko fall on all the boys in London, nobody can't get any work,
fellars who had work losing it, and all over the place it look like
if Operation Pressure gone into execution in a big way.

Galahad for one lose his work, and though it was winter-a
real grim one with pipe bursting and people carrying bucket to
the road standpipe like in the West Indies to draw water-the
old Galahad not very much affected by the weather. Some miracle
of metabolism was still keeping him warm at a time when normal
people rattling with cold, and while they bawling and shivering
he was able to walk about the streets in an ordinary suit of
clothing, sympathising with the huddlers and shivere_rs i􀂷 the
blast of wind that does sometimes sweep across the city hke a
vengeance angel. Fellars put him down for mad, seeing him
dress like that in the winter, and as for the Nordics, some of
them stare at this spade who defying the elements as if he is a
witch doctor.
Galahad used to go walking in Kensington Gardens, the fog
never clear enough for him to see down to High Street Ken.
That things was so bad with him that he had
a pigeon in the park to eat. It does have
a lot of them flying about, and the people does feed them with
bits of bread. Sometimes they get so much bread that they pick
and choosing, and Galahad watching them with envy. In this
country, people prefer to see man starve than a cat or dog want
something to eat.
Watching these fat pigeons strut about the park, the idea come
to Galahad to snatch one and take it home and roast it. When
he was a little fellar his father had a work in High Street in San
Fernando, a town about forty miles from Port of Spain. It used
to have pigeons like stupidness all about the street-nobody
know where they come from, and Galahad father used to snatch
and send them home to cook.
Galahad remember that as he stand up there by the pond in
the gardens, watching the people throw bread for the swans,
and hold pieces for the seagulls to swoop down and take 1t
Which part these seagulls come from? he wonder, for he always
think that seagulls belong to the sea. Once the idea come to his head, he begin to go to the park


regularly to study pigeon life, to watch the movements and plan
out a strategy. It have a little place, near an entrance to the park
(as soon as you cross over the zebra, a little way down from
Queensway) where the pigeons does hang out a lot. Only thing
is that it have iron railing there, so you can't get right up to
the birds. But people like to stand there and throw bread for
them, and they does come near to the railing, so if you really
desperate you could push your hand in and snatch one.
Was that what Galahad plan to do, and he wasn't so much
frighten of the idea of the snatch as what would happen if one
of them animal-loving people see him. That thought make him
shiver, and the morning he was in action he look around carefully
to make sure nobody near.
'Coo-coo,' Galahad say, throwing bread and leaning on the
rail.
'Coo-coo-coo,' the pigeons say, and they start to Rutter around
as Galahad throw bread, for it was early in the morning and
the usual bread-givers wasn't out yet.
Galahad eye a fat fellar who edging up to the rail. He start
to drop bread a little nearer, until the bird was close. He make
the snatch so quietly that the other pigeons only Rutter around
a little and went on eating. He start to swing the pigeon around,
holding it by the head, for he want to kill it quick and push
it in his pocket.
As aforesaid, that particular season it was as if the gods
against the boys, and just as Galahad swinging the pigeon one of
them old geezers who does always wear furcoat come through
the entrance with little Flossie on a lead, to give the little dear
a morning constitution, and as soon as Flossie spot the spade she
start a sharp barking.
'Oh you cruel, cruel beast!' the woman say, and Galahad
head fly back from where he kneeling on the ground to handle
the situation better. 'You cruel monster! You killer! '
Galahad blood run cold : he see the gallows before him right
away and he push the pigeon in his jacket pocket and stand up,

and the pigeon still fluttering in the pocket.
 'I must find a policeman!' the woman screech, throwing her
hands up in the air, and she turn back to the road.
Galahad make races through the park, heading down for
Lancaster Gate.
Later in the morning, he went round by Moses.
'I buy a bird, boy,' he tell Moses. 'Get up and let we make a
cook.'
'You buy a bird!' Moses say. 'where you get mney from to
buy bird, papa?' But the idea of eating a bird and rice have him
out of bed long time.
Now when Galahad did reach back home, and he sit down
and start to pick the bird feather, he start to feel guilty. All he
try to argue with himself that he only do it because he hungry
and things brown, still the feeling that he do a bad thing
wouldn't leave him. 'What the hell I care,' he say to himself,
'so much damn pigeon all about the place. Look how they
making mess all about in Trafalgar Square until the governmtmt
trying to get rid of them. What the hell happen if I snatch one
to eat?' But when he finish plucking the pigeon conscious humbugging
him so much that he Ring it in a corner. Little later he
thought about Moses. 'Moses in this country long,' he say to
himself, 'and if he could eat it I don't see why I must feel so
guilty.' So he went round by Moses.
'I make a snatch,' Galahad say, and he tell Moses all what
happen.
 'Boy, you take a big chance,' Moses say. 'You think this ts
Trinidad? Them Pigeons there to beautify the park, not to
eat. The people over here will kill you if you touch a fly.' But
all the same the old Moses eyeing the bird, and is a nice, fat
one. 'Well clean it and cut it up,' he say, 'I will put the rice
on to boil: But you mustn't do this kind of thing again, you
will get in big trouble.'
'If 'The old geezer call me a cruel monster,' Galahad say.
you did see she face, you would think I commit a murder.'

'You lucky they didn't catch you,' Moses say.
'ls a long time I ain't eat pigeon, boy,' Galahad say.
'Pigeon meat really sweet,' Moses say.
In about a hour they was eating pigeon and rice. Galahad
sucking the bones and smacking his lips.
'You have a cigarette?' he ask Moses when he finish.
'Look some Benson there on the table-Cap was round here
yesterday.'
'How things going at the factory?' Galahad say, lighting
up and sitting back. Then he say, 'You have the room too hot,
man. Turn down the gas a little.'
'You all right, yes,' Moses say, 'something wrong with you.'
'Boy, work hard like hell to get these days. Day before yesterday
I scout the Great West Road, by all them factory, and
nothing doing nowhere at all. 􀂒t look like they clamping down
on the boys hard.'
'I hear a Indian fellar say it have work in a cigarette factory
in the East End, but I don't know. They might take Indian and
not spades. You could go and try if you like. Is just a little way
from Aldgate.'
'How much they paying?'
'You could hit a tens with overtime.'
'I might go and try. Is when you think Lyons will begin
taking fellars down in Cadby Hall?'
'Well last year we had a good spring and they start about
March. But it all depend on the weather, people don't want ice
cream when it so cold.'
'Boy, when you not working you does feel bad.'
Moses light a cigarette and sit down before the fire.
'That -ing skylight still leaking,' he say, looking up as he
lean back in the chair. 'I try to put some putty yesterday, but
the water still coming through.'
'Why you don't tell the landlord about it?'
'I tell him already, man, but you know how these fellars
is. I take the broom and put a rag on it and wipe the glass, and

that help a little. Sometimes the heat from the fire make water
on the glass.'
'You hear from home lately?'
'No man. I write my brother and tell him to send £500 for
me, but I ain't get a reply. You hear?'
'I get a letter from a fellar yesterday who say he want to
come up.'
'All them fellars want to come up. They must be think life
easy here.'
'They don't know.'
The pigeon and rice have Moses feeling good and he in the
mood for a oldtalk.
'Aye Galahad,' he say, 'you used to know a fellar name Brackley
in Charlotte Street?'
'Brackley? Charlotte Street? But how you mean? You think I
would be living in Port of Spain and don't know Brackley!
Ain't he is the fellar who ain't have no nose, and he always
riding about town on a ladies bicycle, peddling with his heels,
and his fingers sticking out on the handle bars? And if you
tell him anything he curse you like hell?'
'Yes! Just as I was sitting down here I remember Brackley.
Boy, he was one test could make you laugh! If you call out to
him he stop the bike and start to curse you. "What the - you
want? What the - you calling me for? Brackley is your father?"'
Galahad laugh. 'Yes, I know. You ever hear bout the time
when Brackley sleep with a whore?'
'No.'
'It was Tina. It was a Tuesday night, so things was really
bad with the girls, and Brackley broach Tina. She say all right,
but only thing Brackley must get up early in the morning and
out off, because she don't want them other girls to know she
sleep with a fellar like him. Brackley agree, and Tina carry him
home in George Street and they went to sleep. Next morning
Tina get up very early and gone in the market for her fresh
piece of beef, thinking that by the time she come back Brackley

would be gone. But Brackley take time and get up, and start to
yawn and stretch, and he open the window and stand up there
scratching his chest. All them whores in the backyard looking
at Brackley and saying: "A-a! Brackley sleep with Tina, me
child I" And Brackley stand up there waving his hand: "Morning
neighbour I morning I" and laughing all over his face. When
Tina come Gack she start to kick up hell, but Brackley say,
"What the hell happen to you? I give you my money and I
sleep with you and everybody know." '
Moses laugh. 'You hear bout the time they nail Brackley to
the cross?' he ask Galahad.
'No.'
'One Sunday morning they nail Brackley to the cross up on
Calvary Hill. You know where that is? Up there behind the
Dry River, as you going up Laventille. Well it had a gang of
wayside preachers, and Brackley join them, and he decide this
morning to make things look real. So he tell them to nail him
to the cross before they start to preach. Brackley stretch out
there, and they drive nails between his fingers and tie up his
hands with twine. Brackley look as if he really suffering. A
test went and get a bucket of cattle blood and throw it over him,
and Brackley hang up there while the wayside preachers start
to preach. The leader take out a white sheet and spread it on
the ground, and three-four women stand up with hymnbook in
their hand, and they singing and preaching. But them boys
start to make rah. They begin with little pebbles, but they gradually
increase to some big brick. Brick flying all by Brackley head
until he start to bawl, "Take me down from here!" Brackley
shout. "They didn't stone Christ on the cross I " And this time
big macadam and rock flying all about in the air.'
Galahad laugh until tears come, and Moses suddenly sober
up, as if it not right that in these hard times he and Galahad
could sit there, belly full with pigeon, smoking cigarette, and
talking bout them characters back home. As if Moses get a
guilty feeling, and he watch Galahad with sorrow, thinking

that he ain't have no work and the winter upon the city.
'Boy,' Moses say, 'look how we sit down here happy, and
things brown in general. I mean, sometimes when we oldtalking
so I does wonder about the boys, how all of we come up to the
old Brit'n to make a living, and how years go by and we still
here in this country. Things like that does bother me. With this
night work, sometimes I get up all around eleven o'clock in the
morning-'
'So you wouldn't miss elevenses,' Galahad say.
'I talking serious, man. And I can't go back to sleep, I just
lay there on the bed thinking about my life, how after all these 
years I ain't get no place at all, I still the same way, neither
forward nor backward. You take my advice, Galahad, Is how
long you in the country now?'
'Three-four years.'
'Ah, yes.' Moses lean back in the old armchair the Polish
landlord give him-that is to say, Moses see the armchair in the
landing and put it in his room-and a look come in his face
that bring all the years of suffering to light. 'When was my
second winter here, I was still ready to go back home. I used
to go by them shipping offices and find out what ships leaving
for Trinidad, just in case I happen to raise the money. How
long you think I in Brit'n now, Galahad?'
'Five years?'
'Ten years, papa, ten years the old man in Brit'n, and what
to show for it? What happen during all that time? From winter
to winter, summer to summer, work after work. Sleep, eat,
hustle pussy, work. Boy, sometimes I sit there and think about
that, think about it real hard. Look how it is, them Jamaican
fellars who only here for two-three years save up enough money
to send for their family and I ain't have cent in the bank. How
them fellars manage to save money on five-six pounds a week
beat me, and yet they do it. Boy, if I was you, I would save up
my money and when you have a little thing put by, hustle back
to Trinidad.'

'Who me? No boy. I not going back.'
'Ah, you just like Daniel and Five Past Twelve and them
other fellars. You know what they say? They say that if they have
money they would go all about on the continent, and live big,
and they would never leave Brit'n. Boy, you know what I want
to do? I want to go back to Trinidad and lay down in the sun
and dig my toes, and eat a fish broth and go Maracas Bay and
talk to them fishermen, and all day long I sleeping under a tree,
with just the old sun for company. You know what I would do
if I had money? I go and live Paradise-you know where Paradise
is? Is somewhere between St Joseph and Tacarigua, is a
small village, one time it had a Portugee fellar name Jesus there
and he had a rumshop, so Ripley had him in Believe It Or Not
--Jesus have a rumshop in Paradise. Anyway up there life real
easy. I would get a old house and have some cattle and goat,
and all day long sit down in the grass in the sun, and hit a good
corn cuckoo and calaloo now and then. That is life for me, boy.
I don't want no ballet and opera and symphony.'
'You know,' Galahad say, 'last year I had a feeling to go
back too, but I forget about it. It ain't have no prospects back
home, boy.'
'Sometimes I look back on all the years I spend in Brit'n,'
Moses say, 'and I surprise that so many years gone by. Looking
at things in general life really hard for the boys in London. This
is a lonely miserable city, if it was that we didn't get together
now and then to talk about things back home, we would suffer
like hell. Here is not like home where you have friends all
about. In the beginning you would think that is a good thing,
that nobody minding your business, but after a while you want
to get in company, you want to go to somebody house and eat a
meal, you want to go on excursion to the sea, you want
to go and play football and cricket. Nobody in London does really accept you. They tolerate you, yes, but you can't go their house and eat or sit down and talk. It ain't have no sort family life for us here. Look at Joseph. He married to a 

English girl and they have four children, and they living in two rooms in Paddington. He apply to the LCC for a flat, but it look like he would never get one. Now the children big enough to go to school, and what you think? Is big fight every day because the other children calling them darkie. When they not at school they in the street playing. Boy, when I was a little fellar my mother cut my tail if I play in the street. And you think Joseph could make out on that six pounds ten he getting? As it is he have ten pounds for me and I feel bad to ask him for it when I meet him. Boy, when I see thing like that happening to other people I decide I would never married. Look what
happen to Lewis, how his wife divorce him.' 'Lewis look for that, thumping the woman every night.' 'Yes, but still. And another thing, look how people does dead and nobody don't know nothing until the milk bottles start to pile up in front of the door. Supposing one day I keel
off here in this room? I don't take milk regular-I would stay here until one of the boys drop round. That is a hell of a thing to think about, you know. One time a test dead in this house­right there down the hall, in the second room. You know what? I miss the test-was one of them old geezers, every morning she see me she say. "Cold today, isn't it? I bet you wish you were back home now." She used to wear a fur coat and go in the park and sit down, crouch up like a fowl when rain falling. Well I miss the test: when I ask the landlord for her, he say she dead about a month ago. You see what I mean?' 'The best thing to do is to take milk regular,' Galahad say. 'Laugh kiff-kiff if you want, but I here in this country longer than you, and you still have a lot to learn. You never leave the gas fire on by mistake?' 'No. I only use it when I cooking.' 'Oh, I forget you don't want heat in the winter. Anyway you don't read the papers? Every day somebody dead with leaving gas on. If a test don't like your head, all he have to do is come in the room when you sleeping and put on the gas, and next 

day you get two lines in the newspaper.'
'The trouble with you,' Galahad say, 'is that you want a holiday. Why you don't take a trip to Berlin or Moscow? Listen, I hear the Party giving free trips to the boys to go to different
cities on the continent, with no strings attached, you don't have to join up or anything.'
'Who tell you so?'
'I get a wire. I hear two students went, and they say they had
a sharp time, over there not like London at all, the people greeting
you with open arms. Why you don't contact the Party?'
'Take it easy, I have enough grey hairs as it is. But talking
about holiday, what does happen here when is Christmas? No
fete at all, everybody in the house eating Christmas pudding.
Boy, you remember what Christmas does be like back home?
Fete like stupidness. And right after that come New Year.
They don't celebrate that in this country at all, though I always
want to take a trip to bonny Scotland, I hear Old Years is big
fete there.'
'Who tell you they don't celebrate here?'
'Ah, bags of people stand up in the Circus and throw balloon
in the air-you call that fete? The only thing is them white girls
does want to kiss you. They say if the first thing they do for the
new year is see a spade, they will have luck for the whole year.
Them bastards ! '
'It good to lime out there every Old Year,' Galahad say.
'To do what? Get a kiss? Man, you really foolish, yes. Fellars
like you would stay in Brit'n till you dead. You come like a old
spade I know. He living down Ladbroke Grove. He come to
this country since he was a young man, full of ambition, and
he never went back. He had some good times, yes, but what
you think happen to him in old age? If you see him now ,
crouching about in them tube station in a old beast coat, and
picking cigarette butt from the pavement. Study for old age, boy.
Study what will happen to you if you stay here and get old.
Boy, if I was sure that I would get a good job in Trinidad, and

I had my passage back home, you think I will stay here? But
is no use talking to fellars like you. You hit two-three white
women and like you gone mad.'
'I don't know why you shouting down the old country like
that,' Galahad say. 'If you ain't do well is nobody fault but your
own. Look at all them other fellars who do all right for themselves.
Look at the students-'
'Don't talk about students,' Moses say. 'That is another thing
altogether. Them fellars have their bread buttered from home
they ain't come to Brit'n to hustle like you and me. They spend
a few years here, learn a profession, then go back home stupider
than when they come. They go back with English wife and
what happen? As soon as they get there, the places where their
white wife could go, they can't go. Next thing you hear, the
wife horning them and the marriage gone puff. Look what
happen to that Indian fellar what married a German girl and
went back after he study. He kill the girl, cut she up and put
she in a sack and throw she in the sea. You don't know about
that case?'
'I hear about it.'
'That was a big thing, man. They even send detective to
London to check up fingerprint and thing. You should know
in the end they hang the test, and the boys make a big calypso
out of it.'
'What I mean,' Galahad say, 'is the impression on the English
people how the papers always talking about fellars coming up
here to work and creating problem. I mean, it have a lot of
other fellars who come to study and visit and so on. It ain't
only hustlers like we.'
'Yes, but nobody interested in them fellars.'
'We had better chances when the Socialists was in power, you
know. You ever vote?'
'But how you mean? I always go and put my X, man. And
I always canvassing for Labour when is elections.'

‘Boy, you think fellars like Daniel and Harris does vote
Conservative or Labour?'
‘I suspect Harris, you know. He tell me Labour, but I have
mind he is a Tory at heart. He always talking about the greats
of the old Churchill and how if it wasn't for him this
country go right down.'
'Well,' Galahad get up, 'we will pick up. I have to go to
school this afternoon to collect the rent.'
'If you happen to see Cap,' Moses say, getting ready to go
back to sleep, 'tell him to pass around by me.'
• • •
It have a p.s. episode with the pigeons what happen to Cap,
and he never tell any of the boys because he afraid they laugh at
him. What happen was this: One time in his migrations Cap
was staying in a top room in Dawson Place, near the Gate, and
for some reason or other seagulls start to sleep in the night on a
ledge up by the roof. These seagulls that come up from the old
Thames when things too hard for them by the sea, you could
never tell where you will see them. Sometimes they join the
pigeons in Trafalgar Square, and it have some of them does
hang out by the Odeon in Marble Arch. Anyway, nobody surprise
to see seagulls sitting up there on the roof, and in fact
how Cap get to find out is because one day he had a girl in the
room, and he went out and forget to take the key. So when he
come back he ring the bell, and as is the habit with the fellars
who living in top room, whoever there would open the window
and throw the key down for the person outside instead of
climbing down all them stairs to open the door. So when Cap
ring the bell, the girl open the window to throw the key, and
when Cap look up he see these seagulls flying about and settling
on the roof.
However, he didn't think about it again until much later, when
he was laying down on the bed after the girl left. In fact, he fall

asleep and get up in the evening feeling so hungry that his head
giddy and he frighten to get out of bed and exert himself. Cap
lay there thinking about big meals at Chinese and Indian restaurants,
and remembering the times when fortune favour him and
his belly full so he didn't have to worry about food. And while
he was in this meditation, the seagulls start to fly across his
mind.
Cap leap out of bed and Hy by the window. Sure enough,
the ledge passing near the window and a good stretch could bring
him in contact with the gulls. Cap get so excited that he make
a wild snatch and catch a seagull by the tail. The seagull cry
out and flutter out of his grasp, leaving him with two feathers in
his hand.
Now them seagull not as tame as the pigeons in London, and
from the time Cap make the wild attack they all move out of
range. Cap went back and lay down on the bed, for he does
think best in that position.
Then he leap up again and went in the cupboard to look
for bread. He find an end slice and he break it up in little bits.
All this action getting him hungrier and hungrier and he contemplating
how seagull would taste, for he never eat one before.
When the bread break up Cap find a piece of long twine in a
drawer and he make a slippery knot. He went and open the
window again and put the twine down, making a circle, and
in the circle he put a few pieces of bread and he jam himself up
against the wall, just twisting his bead so he could see what
happening.
Two-three seagulls come, but instead of settling they hover in
the air like hummingbird and eat all the bread. Cap put more
bread and wait This time two come and one of them that was
greedy decide to settle down and eat off all the bread.
As soon as the bird foot touch the ledge Cap make the pull.
The seagull jump up a little, as if it playing skip with Cap,
and when the twine fly underneath-Cap pull real hard-it settle down again.


gain, the old brain wrestling with the problem. Then he leap
up again and take up a old cardboard box. He went and take
his clothes off the hanger. He tie the twine to the hanger. He
open the window, and he prop up the box with the hanger,
and he put bread in the space under the box and jam up against
the wall to wait, holding the other end of the twine in his
fingers.
Two seagull come to investigate and they see the bread and
start to eat. As soon as one was under the box, Cap jerk the
string, the hanger fall and the cardboard box fall on a seagull.
The old Cap, frighten that the bird might get away, drag the
box in thiough the window, keeping it down.
When Cap pull the box in it fall down inside and the seagull
start to fly about in Cap room. He shut the window quick and
stand up there watching the bird. He know for sure that he
have it now, so he just stand up there enjoying anticipation,
waiting for a good chance to catch it.
The seagull went on Cap bed and stand up there on the
pillow, watching him, the head nodding and the eyes bright.
'Quee-quee,' Cap say, taking a piece of bread in his hand and
holding it out like the people in the park.
'Quee-quee-quee,' the seagull say, but it make no move to go
to Cap.
Cap drop the bread and make a dive for the bed. He nearly
catch it that time, and he thought he had, but when he look is
a feather from the tail that he holding.
Now the bird start to fly round and round the room, making
circle with the electric light in the centre.
But hunger have Cap desperate now and he making some
wild grab that almost catching the bird, but the bird making
some kind of fancy swerve every time and getting away.
Cap get so vex that he take a blanket off the bed, and he wait
until the seagull coming around in the circle, and he throw the
blanket. He bring the bird down, tangle up in the blanket, and

he throw himself on the blanket and hold down the bird.
In the two weeks that Cap stay in that top room, he lessen
the seagull population in London evening after evening. Not
to arouse suspicion he used to put the feathers in a paper bag
and when he go out in the night, throw it in a garden or a public
rubbish bin.
The menu had him looking well, he eat seagull in all manner
and fashion. He recover his strength, and when the landlord tell
him that he had to leave, Cap cast a sorrowful glance upwards
when he was leaving Dawson Place.
The next place that he went to live, he get a top room again when he ask for it, but seagulls never come on that ledge, though Cap used to put bread out every day.

The changing of the seasons, the cold slicing winds, the falling
leaves, sunlight on green grass, snow on the land, London
particular. Oh what it is and where it is and why it is, no one
knows, but to have said: 'I walked on Waterloo Bridge,' 'I
rendezvoused at Charing Cross,' 'Piccadilly Circus is my playground,'
to say these things, to have lived these things, to have
lived in the great city of London, centre of the world. To one
day lean against the wind walking up the Bayswater Road
(destination unknown), to see the leaves swirl and dance and
spin on the pavement ( sight unseeing), to write a casual letter
home beginning: 'Last night, in Trafalgar Square ...”
What it is that a city have, that any place in the world have,
that you get so much to like it you wouldn't leave it for anywhere
else? What it is that would keep men although by and
large, in truth and in fact, they catching their royal to make
a living, staying in a cramp-up room where you have to do
everything-sleep, eat, dress, wash, cook, live. Why it is, that
although they grumble about it all the time, curse the people,
curse the government, say all kind of thing about this and

that, why it is, that in the end, everyone cagey about saying
outright that if the chance come they will go back to them green islands
in the sun?
In thee grimness of the winter, with your hand plying space
blind man's stick in the yellow fog, with ice on the
and a coldness defying all effort to keep warm, the
coming and going, working, eating, sleeping, going about
metropolis like veteran Londoners.
Nearly every Sunday morning, like if they going to church, the boys liming in Moses room, coming together for a oldtalk, to find out the latest gen, what happening, when is the next
Fete, Bart asking if anybody see his girl anywhere, Cap recounting a episode he had with a woman by the tube station the night before, Big City want to know why the arse he can't win 
A pool, Galahad recounting a clash with the colour problem in a restaurant in Piccadilly, Harris, saying he hope the weather turns, Five saying he have to drive a truck to Glasgow tomorrow.
Always every Sunday morning they coming to Moses, like if is confession, sitting down on the bed, on the floor, on the chairs, everybody asking what happening but nobody like they know what happening, laughing kiff-kiff at a joke, waiting to see who would start to smoke first, asking Moses if he have any thing to eat, the gas going low, why you don't put another shilling
in, who have shilling, anybody have change? And everyboy turning out their pockets for this shilling that would mean difference between shivering and feeling warm, and nobody having any shilling, until conscious hit one of them and he say: 'Aps I Look I have a shilling, it was right down in the bottom of my trousers pocket, and I didn't feel it.'
‘Boy, Moses, if I tell you what happen to me last night-'
‘Boy, you hear of any work anywhere?'
‘Man, I looking for a room.'
‘Boy, I pick up something by the Arch yesterday-'
Sometimes during the week, when he come home and he can’t sleep, is as if he hearing the voices in the room, all themoaning and groaning and sighing and crying, and he open
his eyes expecting to see the boys sitting around.
Sometimes, listening to them, he look in each face, and he feel
a great compassion for every one of them, as if he live each of
their lives, one by one, and all the strain and stress come to
rest on his own shoulders.
'What you doing, Moses? You still thinking about going back
home?'
'I see they have a lot of tinned breadfruit about the place.'
'-and if was me I would of thump she-'
'Moses, how you so quiet, like time catching up with you,
boy.'
'So what happening these days?'
Some Sunday mornings he hardly say a word, he only lay
there on the bed listening to them talk about what happen last
night, and Harris looking at his watch anxiously and saying that
he has an important engagement, but all the same never getting
up to go, and Bart saying that he sure one of the boys must have
seen his girl Beatrice, but you-all too nasty, you wouldn't tell me
where, ease me up, man, I must find that girl again, and Cap
smiling his innocent smile what trap so many people, and Galahad
cocky and pushing his mouth in everything and Big City
fiddling with the radio (Radio Luxembourg always have good
fusic), and if Five in town he want to know who going to lime
in the evening.
'Moses, if you hear of anything, let me know, eh.'
'Boy, it have any rooms down here? Two fellars coming up
next week and I can't get a place for them-you could help me
out?'
'I hear that they looking for the boys to do National Service
-watch out, Galahad, you still twenty.'
Sometimes, after they gone, he hear the voices ringing in his
ear, and sometimes tears come to his eyes and he don't know
why really, if is home-sickness or if is just that life in general beginning to get too hard. 

How many Sunday mornings gone like that? It look to him
as if life composed of Sunday morning get-togethers in the room:
he must make a joke of it during the week and say: 'You
coming to church Sunday?' Lock up in that small room, with
London and life on the outside, he used to lay there on the bed,
thinking how to stop all of this crap, how to put a spoke in the
wheel, to make things different. Like how he tell Cap to get to
hell out one night, so he should do one Sunday morning when
he can't bear it any more: Get to hell out, why the arse you
telling me about how they call you a darkie, you think I am
interested?
Dress, go out, coast a lime in the park. Walking that way, he
might meet up Harris and Galahad, both of them dress like
Englishmen, with bowler hat and umbrella, and the Times
sticking out of the jacket pocket so the name would show.
Hello boy, what happening.
So what happening, man, what happening.
How long you in Brit'n boy?
You think this winter bad? You should of been here in '52.
What happening, what happening man.
What the arse happening, lord? What all of us doing, coasting
lime, Galahad asking if anybody know the words of the song
Maybe It's Because I'm A Londoner, Cap want two pounds borrow, Five only in town for the night and he want to know
if he could sleep in Moses room, Big City coming tomorrow to
full up the coupons (I nearly hit them last week), Lewis saying
that Agnes come begging and if he should go to live with her
again, Tolroy want to send Ma and Tanty back to Jamaica
(them two old bitches, I don't know why they don't dead).
So what happening, Tolroy? I don't see you with your guitar
these days?
Every year he vowing to go back to Trinidad, but after the
winter gone and birds sing and all the trees begin to put on
leaves again, and flowers come and now and then the old sun
shining, is as if life start all over again, as if it still have time,
as if it still have another chance. I will wait until after the
summer, the summer docs really be hearts.
But it reach a stage, and he know it reach that stage, where he
get so accustom to the pattern that he can't do anything about
it. Sure, I could do something about it, he tell himself, but he
never do anything. He used to wonder about back home, where
he have a grandmother and a girl friend who always writing
him and asking him why he don't come back, that they would
go and live in Grenada, where her father have a big estate.
Why you don't go back to Trinidad.
What happening man, what happening.
If I give you this ballad! I Last nigh tyou
went to see the Christmas tree in Trafalgar Square?
Harris giving a dance in Brixton next Saturday-you going?
A fellar asking the Home Secretary in the House of Commons:
'Are you aware that there are more than 40,000 West
Indians living in Great Britain?'
'You know who I see in Piccadilly last night? Gomes! He
must be come up for talks of federation.'
One night of any night liming on the Embankment near to
Chelsea, he stand up on the bank of the river, watching the lights of the buildings reflected in the water, thinking what he must do, if he should save up money and go back home, if he should try to make it by next year before he change his mind again. The old Moses, standing on the banks of the Thames. Sometimes he think he see some sort of profound realization in his life, as if all that happen to him was experience that make him a better man, as if now he could draw apart from any hustling and just sit down and watch other people fight to live. Under the kiff-kiff laughter, behind the ballad and the episode, the what-happening, the summer-is-hearts, he could see a great aimlessness, a great restless, swaying movement that leaving you standing in the same spot. As if a forlorn shadow of doom fall on all the spades in the country. As if he could see the black faces bobbing up and down in the millions of white, strained faces, everybody hustling along the Strand, the spades jostling in the crowd, bewildered, hopeless. As if, on the surface, things don't look so bad, but when you go down a little, you bounce up a kind of misery and pathos and a frightening-what? He don't know the right word, but he have the right feeling in his heart. As if the boys laughing, but they only laughing because they afraid to cry, they only laughing because to think so much about everything would be a big calamity-like how he here now, the thoughts so heavy like he unable to move his body. Still, it had a greatness and a vastness in the way he was feeling tonight, like it was something solid after feeling everything else give way, and though he ain't getting no happiness out of the cogitations he still pondering, for is the first time that he ever find himself thinking like that. Daniel was telling him how over in France all kinds of fellars writing books what turning out to be best-sellers. Taxi-driver, porter, road-sweeper-it didn't matter. One day you sweating in the factory and the next day all the newspapers have your name and photo, saying how you are a new literary giant. He watch a tugboat on the Thames, wondering if he could ever write a book like that, what everybody would buy. It was a summer night: laughter fell softly: it was the sort of night that if you wasn't making love to a woman you feel you was the only person in the world like that.

